Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) Q1 2020 Earnings Conference Call April 28, 2020  5:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Ruth Cotter - Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and Investor Relations
Lisa Su - President and Chief Executive Officer
Devinder Kumar - Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Conference Call Participants
Matthew Ramsay - Cowen and Company
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Stacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse Securities (NYSE:USA) LLC
Timothy Arcuri - UBS Equities
Mitch Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Blayne Curtis - Barclays Capital
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to the AMD First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Ruth Cotter, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Market, Human Resources and Investor Relations. Ruth, please go ahead.
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, and welcome to AMD’s first quarter 2020 financial results conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings release and slides. If you have not reviewed these documents, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of AMD’s website, amd.com.
Participants on today’s call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Devinder Kumar, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website.
Before we begin today, please note that our Annual Shareholder Meeting will be held on Thursday, the 7th of May as a virtual event accessible from amd.com. We will also be attending several virtual Wall Street events during the second quarter, including the Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference on Thursday, May 28. And our second quarter 2020 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday the 12th of June.
Today’s discussions contain forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it. Those statements are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations speak only as of the current date and as such involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial metrics during this call, except for revenue and segment operational results, which are on a GAAP basis. The non-GAAP financial measures referenced are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in today’s press release posted on amd.com.
Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on risks related to any forward-looking statements that we may make. You will also find detailed discussions about our risk factors in our filings with the SEC and in particular, AMD’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2019.
Now with that, I’d like to hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Lisa Su
Thank you, Ruth, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. Before covering our quarterly results, I wanted to provide some comments addressing our response to COVID-19.
First, I want to recognize the toll that pandemic has taken on the world. The breadth and speed at which COVID-19 has changed the world since our last earnings call has been staggering. I want to thank the countless healthcare professionals and essential workers serving on the front lines everyday.
At AMD, our first priority has been to protect the health and safety of our employees. We have transitioned the vast majority of our more than 12,000 employees worldwide to working from home, while ensuring we maintain focus on reliably supplying our customers with the products and services their businesses depend on.

We’re also supporting the communities we call home through financial and personal protective equipment donations and providing our technology to accelerate medical research. More than ever, the pandemic has placed technology at the forefront of how we work, learn, shop and connect. And we are proud to be providing many of the components powering these essential technologies.
Against that backdrop, we performed well in the first quarter. Revenue increased 40% year-over-year to $1.79 billion, as demand for 7 nanometer Ryzen, Radeon and EPYC processors drove record first quarter revenue and our highest gross margin in eight years.
I’m pleased with our execution in the quarter, as we quickly adopted our global operations to navigate pockets of supply chain disruption and addressed geographic and market demand shifts caused by COVID-19.
Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment. First quarter segment revenue increased 73% year-over-year to $1.44 billion, driven by increased Ryzen and Radeon processor adoption.
We saw some softness based on the COVID-19 situation in China that impacted PC-related sales in the first quarter. While both component and system demand were relatively strong at online vendors, offline channel sales were weaker-than-expected as many retail locations across China were closed for much of the quarter. PC demand in the rest of the world was strong, offsetting the softness in China.
Client processor revenue grew significantly year-over-year, as strong Ryzen processor demand resulted in significant double-digit percentage increases in unit shipments and ASP. As a result, we believe we gained client unit market share for the 10th straight quarter.
In desktop, overall demand for our latest Ryzen 3000 and prior generation Ryzen 2000 processor families were strong, both of which continue to top retailer bestseller lists and have more than 50% share of premium processor sales at many top global e-tailers.
In mobile, unit shipments increased by a strong double-digit percentage year-over-year. We set a record for quarterly notebook processor revenue, driven by sustained demand for our previous generation offerings and the ramp of the first Ryzen mobile 4000 design wins.
Initial consumer notebooks featuring our new Ryzen 4000 processors launched to strong demand, based on reviews that demonstrated their performance and battery life leadership for ultra-thin and gaming notebooks.
We also gained momentum in the commercial market, winning multiple large-scale deployments as Lenovo announced new ThinkPads and HP launched commercial class ProBooks powered by our latest Ryzen 4000 mobile processors.
We are on track to accelerate our mobile growth this year, as Acer, ASUS, Dell, HP, Lenovo and other OEMs are expected to launch more than 135 new Ryzen-powered consumer and commercial notebooks over the coming quarters.
In graphics, first quarter unit shipments and revenue both grew by a double-digit percentage year-over-year, driven largely by sales of our Radeon RX 5000 series, desktop and notebook GPUs. Desktop channel sales increased based on solid demand for both 7 nanometer RDNA graphics cards and previous generation Radeon RX 500 series GPUs.
In mobile, demand for notebooks powered by our Radeon 5000M mobile GPUs, including the latest Apple MacBook Pro and other gaming notebooks, drove a richer mix, as customers transition their platforms to our new RDNA mobile offerings.
Development of our RDNA to GPUs continues to progress well. We are on track to launch our next-generation gaming GPUs later this year, with a 50% performance per watt increase compared to our current offerings.
In the data center, Microsoft Azure introduced new virtual machines, optimized for visualization workloads, powered by our Radeon Instinct MI25 GPUs. Microsoft is using our differentiated virtualization technology to partition a GPU for the first time in the same way they partitioned multi-core CPUs, allowing customers to tailor the GPU capability to meet the needs of their specific workload.

Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Revenue of $348 million decreased 21% year-over-year, as lower semi-custom revenue more than offset a significant increase in server revenue.
As expected, semi-custom product revenue was negligible in the quarter, as Sony and Microsoft, both reduced inventory in advance of next-generation console launches. We expect semi-custom revenue to increase in the second quarter and be heavily weighted towards the second-half of the year, as we ramp production to support the holiday launches of the new PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X consoles.
In server, unit shipments grew by a double-digit percentage sequentially and more than tripled year-over-year, as we continue gaining momentum across cloud, enterprise and HPC customers. We saw particular strength with cloud providers, introducing new instances and accelerating current deployments.
Microsoft Azure, Google and IBM all announced new offerings powered by second-generation EPYC processors, highlighted by Google launching multiple general purpose VMs and Microsoft rolling out an all AMD virtual desktop offering that also includes Radeon Instinct GPUs.
Several cloud providers accelerated their infrastructure deployments to address rising demand from the growing number of users working and schooling from home. For instance, one of our large cloud customers was able to deploy 10,000 2nd Gen EPYC servers in less than 10 days to support the surge in demand for their collaboration services.
In the enterprise, we expanded our 2nd Gen EPYC processor portfolio with new high-frequency processors that expand our performance leadership to advanced modeling, database and hyper-converged workloads. With these new offerings, our 2nd Gen EPYC processor family now includes both the highest performance per core and performance per socket processors in the industry.
We continue winning in HPC, highlighted by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, announcing they selected next-generation AMD EPYC CPUs and Radeon Instinct GPUs to power their El Capitan supercomputer, which is expected to deliver more than two exaflops of computing performance when it is deployed in early 2023.
We are incredibly proud that two of the three publicly announced U.S. exascale supercomputing systems will exclusively use AMD CPUs and GPUs, clearly positioning AMD as the exascale computing leader based on our high-performance computing and graphics technologies and software capabilities.
In closing, our long-term strategy and growth drivers remain unchanged. Although there are some near-term uncertainties in the demand environment, we are well-positioned to navigate through this situation. We have a solid financial foundation and our product portfolio is very well positioned across the PC, gaming and data center markets.
While demand indicators across commercial, education and data center infrastructure markets are strong, we expect some softness in consumer demand in the second-half of the year depending on how overall macroeconomic conditions evolve.
We remain on track to launch our next-generation Zen 3 CPUs and RDNA to GPUs in late 2020 and believe we can deliver another year of strong revenue growth and margin expansion based on the strength of our product portfolio and the diversity of markets we serve.
Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our first quarter financial performance. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. We performed well in the first quarter as we navigated a challenging environment as a result of the ongoing impact of COVID-19. First quarter revenue was $1.79 billion, up 40% from a year ago and down 16% from the prior quarter. Year-over-year growth was driven by strong sales of Ryzen and EPYC processors and Radeon products, partially offset by lower semi-custom sales.

Gross margin was 46%, up 490 basis points from a year ago, driven by Ryzen and EPYC processor sales. Operating expenses were $584 million, compared to $545 million a year ago, primarily due to increase investments in R&D and go-to-market activities.
Operating income was $236 million, up $152 million from a year ago, driven by revenue growth and a greater percentage of Ryzen and EPYC processor sales, while operating margin increased to 13%, as compared to 7% a year ago. Net income was $222 million, up from $62 million a year ago and diluted earnings per share was $0.18 per share, compared to $0.06 per share a year ago.
Now turning to the business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $1.44 billion, up 73% year-over-year, driven by Ryzen processor and Radeon product channel sales growth. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $262 million, or 18% of revenue, compared to $16 million a year ago, driven by significantly higher revenue.
Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment revenue was $348 million, down 21% from $441 million in the prior year, due to the expected decline in semi-custom sales, partially offset by strong data center growth. EESC segment had a loss of $26 million, compared to operating income of $68 million a year ago, which included the benefit of a $60 million licensing game.
Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.4 billion. In addition, in early April, we took the precautionary step to draw down $200 million from our $500 million revolving line of credit. Inventory was $1.1 billion, up 8% from the prior quarter.
On a trailing 12-month basis, adjusted EBITDA was $1.2 billion, resulting in gross leverage of 0.5 times. Free cash flow was negative $120 million in the first quarter, an improvement of $155 million from the prior year. Cash flow from operations was negative $65 million, an improvement of $148 million from a year ago.
Let me turn to the outlook for the second quarter of 2020. Today’s outlook is based on current expectations and contemplates the current COVID-19 environment and customer demand signals. We expect revenue to be approximately $1.85 billion, plus or minus $100 million, an increase of approximately 21% year-over-year and an increase of approximately 4% sequentially.
The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by strong growth in Ryzen and EPYC processor sales. The sequential increase is driven primarily by EPYC processor and semi-custom sales.
In addition, for Q2 2020, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 44% due to higher semi-custom revenue; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $600 million; non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $20 million; and the diluted share count in the second quarter is expected to be approximately 1.23 billion shares.
For the full-year 2020, despite expectations of weaker COVID-19-related consumer demand in the second-half of the year, we expect annual revenue growth of approximately 25%, plus or minus 5 percentage points. In addition, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 45% unchanged from prior guidance and non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 29% of revenue.
In closing, while the market environment has become more challenging given the impact of COVID-19, our first quarter results demonstrate the strength of our business model. Notwithstanding some near-term demand uncertainties, our long-term strategy is unchanged and we are well-positioned with our competitive products and the strength of our balance sheet to navigate today’s environment.
As I finish, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their dedication, flexibility, and focus in these extraordinary times.

With that, I’ll turn it back to Ruth for the question-and-answer session. Ruth?
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, Devinder. And, operator, if you could poll the audience for questions, please?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Matt Ramsay from Cowen. Your line is now live.
Matthew Ramsay
Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. And I hope everyone at AMD is doing well, considering the interesting times where they’ve been. Lisa, I wanted to start with a couple of questions on the server business. I guess, one of which is, how do you – the EESC results in the quarter that you just printed were a bit below, at least, where I had modeled them. So maybe you could talk a bit about how you feel the EPYC business is tracking towards that sort of 10% target you guys had set for the second quarter?
And I noticed in Devinder’s comments on the June quarter guidance, most – some of the upside is going to be driven – I guess, upside sequentially is going to be driven by EPYC. So how are you tracking against that?
And then the last little piece is, I keep getting more and more questions still about the timing of Milan, And I know you guys reiterated that would be this year at the Analyst Day. And if that’s still the case, just let us know. Thanks.
Lisa Su
Yes. Absolutely, Matt. Thank you and I appreciate the question. So look, we are very pleased with the progress in our server business. I think, if you look at sort of the progress we’ve made, there were a number of key things that we wanted to see happen. What we saw in the quarter that we just finished in the first quarter, we actually saw a very nice acceleration of the cloud business as we went through the quarter.
I think, as we go into the second quarter, there’s an additional significant ramp of the server business. And so, we expect to continue to gain share as we go through these next couple of quarters.
I think, what we’re seeing from the current COVID-19 environment, obviously, there’s a lot of puts and takes. But as it relates to data center, it’s positive for the data center market. Certainly, we’ve seen some of our largest customers ask us to accelerate some of our deployments. And we look forward to continuing to ramp our server business. I think you asked about Milan. And yes, we are expecting to be launching that at the end of this year.
Matthew Ramsay
Got it. Thank you. Just wanted to switch quickly into the PC business. One of the things that stood out to me from your commentary in the prepared script was the contrast between strength in the PC business globally versus the weakness in China. I imagine that weakness in China was both on the PC side – on – and on the AIB graphics business. If there’s anyway that you could help quantify that? And we’ve heard some commentary about the economy restarting in China. Have you seen some of those trends start to improve into the second quarter? Thank you.
Lisa Su
Sure. So, the PC business has actually held up pretty well. So if we look at the PC business in the first quarter, we saw the rest of the world PC business actually get some benefit from some of the acceleration in demand sort of towards the end of the quarter. We did – some – see some weakness in China as China was shutdown in the months of February and early March. We saw that primarily in the channel business, so in offline channels.
Now, we have seen that pickup as we’ve gone through the month of April. And what we’re seeing in general in the PC business is, the first quarter and the second quarter is actually relatively strong with accelerated notebook demand. And desktops sequentially lower just based on sort of the preference around notebook versus desktop in this framework. So those are the key dynamics for the PC business.

Matthew Ramsay
Thank you very much.
Lisa Su
Thanks, Matt.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as a reminder, please ask one question and one follow-up to return to the queue. Our next question is coming from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now live.
Joseph Moore
Great. Thank you. You guys are one of the few companies kind of giving a full-year guidance. And I just wonder if you could talk us through how you’re thinking about the second-half? Obviously, you guys have OEM visibility into a bunch of new sockets and new designs, but your customers don’t seem to have visibility. So what – just a little bit more color maybe on how you are thinking about forecasting beyond the visibility that you have in Q2?
Lisa Su
Yes. Sure, Joe. So, look, we understand that, there’s a lot of questions about visibility as we go into the second-half of the year. The way we look at our business is, we have sort of a lot of positives in terms of just market drivers that – we do have good visibility, too. I think our progress in the data center market is a positive. We see that with a number of platforms ramping and the number of customers that we have coming on Board. So we see that as a positive for us, as we go through this year.
Console gaming is a positive for us. There’s lots of anticipation around the consoles. It’s one of the largest launches, I think, of the year. And from that standpoint, there’s no change in our view, as it relates to COVID-19 just given what we see today.
Now, as you look at the range, we have increased the range of our guide. And sort of the biggest sort of question mark in my mind is kind of the shape of the PC market this year. As I mentioned earlier, the first-half actually looks a little bit stronger than expected, particularly on the notebook side.
We are potentially expecting some weakness in the second-half due to consumer spending. You sort of have the two – the two forces are there. I mean, one is, there is a pull with the strong work from home trends. But then there’s also the view that from a macro standpoint, will be weaker in the second-half of the year. So that’s the primary variance in our model is what happens to the PC market.
I will say, though, that underneath the market trends, we’re very pleased with our portfolio. I mean, the notebook portfolio that we have in PCs is the strongest we’ve ever had. And we have a good opportunity to gain share throughout the year even as the market may be a little bit weaker than originally expected. So that’s the reason for the guidance to try to give the puts and takes and, of course, we’ll see how the year plays out.
Joseph Moore
That’s helpful. Thank you. And then in terms of data center GPU, I know you talked a lot about the Analyst Day about the newer products and penetration of new workloads in the second-half. Can you talk about the workload that you’ve been addressing so far, cloud gaming and whatnot? And how is that business progressing before we get to the CDNA launch?
Lisa Su
Yes. So the data center GPU business is an important strategic business. In terms of size, it’s still relatively small compared to the data center CPU business. We are making progress – good overall progress in a number of workloads. Cloud gaming is one that has been a good one for us and we continue to see opportunity in that as we go through this year with the current product set.
We also just launched the VDI instance with Microsoft Azure, which we feel will be a good workload for us. And then we have a number of the HPC wins that we – that we’ve talked about that are going to be based on the CDNA architecture, which is an important strategic area for us, as well as continued focus on improving our machine learning and overall machine learning frameworks and capabilities. So those are the key workloads that we’re going after. And I do think it’s a – it’s an important business for us as we go forward.

Joseph Moore
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Securities. Your line is now live.
Vivek Arya
Thank you for taking my question. Lisa, for my first one, I just wanted to go back to your EPYC server business. So very strong units in Q1, but it appears that the mix was very kind of cloud heavy. So perhaps ASPs were lower than we are used to seeing. I was wondering if you could just give us some sense of how we should think about server ASPs going forward?
And importantly, if you think of server sales for you for this year versus what you taught 90 days ago, how is that looking like? Because I think your competitors said that they expected some kind of digestion of cloud capacity in the back-half. So I was just hoping to get some more color around ASP and just what you thought of your overall server business for this year?
Lisa Su
Sure, Vivek. Yes. So the – that is correct. There was a mix shift towards cloud in the first quarter and that did have an impact with ASPs lower. That being the case, the ASPs are very healthy. So, I think from the standpoint of how our business evolves, it’s within the plus or minus of the business model.
In terms of where we believe demand will be versus 90 days ago, it’s pretty similar. And the way I would say it is, we see cloud being strong. What we see is not just putting on more capacity, but really the ramping of new platforms and so we view that as a positive. We have strong enterprise adoption as well. When we look at our pipeline in enterprise, it’s continued to grow, and continue to grow in the first quarter and continue to grow in sort of the first month here of the second quarter.
We do expect perhaps at the transactional business sort of the SMB type of business may be more impacted by COVID-19. But that was never a large piece of our business to begin with. So we feel good about the server business. And it continues to be a very strategic focus for us. I think the relationships with our partners and our customers are getting closer as we go through sort of the process of ramping volumes. And so we continue to view it as a strong growth driver for us on a year-over-year basis.
Vivek Arya
Very helpful. And then maybe a follow-up for Devinder on gross margins. So first off kind of tracking towards your 45-ish percent target for the year, but Q2 is 44%. And I recall, I think, either Lisa or Devinder, you said that second-half will be more semi-custom weighted, but that suggests some more pressure on gross margin. So I was just hoping you could walk us through how we should think about gross margins in the back-half, given all the puts and takes of mix that you are expecting? Thank you.
Devinder Kumar
Yes. Thanks, Vivek. I think the key puts and takes, as you said, continued ramp for the semi-custom, which has margins as you observed lower than corporate average, but they are offset by the strength in the data center revenue. So semi-custom brands in the back-half, and that does impact the gross margin being lower than corporate average.
But data center strength, as Lisa just referenced, that we are pleased with the ramp in the data center business. And data center business, the margins are significantly higher than corporate average and that has the offset to help us deliver as we guided for 2020 the 45% gross margin for 2020.
Lisa Su
Yes. Maybe, Vivek, I can just add to that.
Vivek Arya
Sure.
Lisa Su
So in addition to the data center mix that Devinder mentioned, we also expect to see the console gross margins improve as we go through the year. And that’s the reason for the full-year guide at 45%. So usually, what happens is in the very first – second quarter is our very first quarter ramp for the consoles, and so the margin starts a little bit lower and continues to ramp as we go through the year.

Vivek Arya
Okay. Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Mark Lipacis from Jefferies. Your line is now live.
Mark Lipacis
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. On the – first question on the client side, I guess, AMD has historically had a good presence on the consumer side, but it sounds like you’re making great progress on the commercial side with HP and ThinkPad design wins. Can you give us a sense roughly like what is the split between consumer and commercial on the notebook side? And like how it – how does that play going forward? Does commercial just continue to go