Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) Q1 2021 Results Conference Call April 27, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ruth Cotter - SVP, Worldwide Marketing, HR and IR
Dr. Lisa Su - President and CEO
Devinder Kumar - EVP, CFO and Treasurer
Conference Call Participants
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo
Matt Ramsay - Cowen & Company
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Operator
Hello, and welcome to the AMD First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ruth Cotter, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Ruth.
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, and welcome to AMD’s first quarter 2021 financial results conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings press release and accompanying slideware. If you’ve not reviewed these documents yet, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com.
Participants on today’s conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Devinder Kumar, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website.
Before we begin, I would like to note that our Annual Shareholder Meeting will be held on Wednesday May 19th as a virtual event, accessible from our website.
Dr. Lisa Su will provide a key note presentation at the JP Morgan Technology Media and Communications Conference on Monday May 24th. Dan McNamara, Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Server business will attend the Bank of America’s Global Technology Conference on Wednesday the 9th of June. And our second quarter 2021 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday, June 11th.
Today’s discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today, and as such involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call. The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today’s press release and slides posted on our website.
Now, with that, I’ll hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Dr. Lisa Su
Thank you, Ruth, and good afternoon to all those listening in today.
Our business continued to accelerate significantly in the first quarter, driven by the best product portfolio in our history, strong execution and robust market demand. We delivered our sixth straight quarter of double-digit percentage year-over-year revenue growth, and record quarterly revenue and profitability. First quarter revenue increased 93% year-over-year to $3.45 billion with growth in all of our businesses.
Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment. First quarter revenue increased 46% year-over-year to $2.1 billion, led by growth in both Ryzen and Radeon processor sales. In client computing revenue grew by a significant double-digit percentage year-over-year and increased sequentially as we set records for client processor revenue and ASP. Against the backdrop of strong overall PC demand, our revenue is growing significantly faster than the market, particularly in the ultrathin, gaming and commercial segments.
As a result, we believe we gained client processor revenue share in the quarter. Our revenue share has doubled over the last two years as we have expanded in the premium products. In notebooks, we delivered our sixth straight quarter of record mobile processor revenue, based on sustained demand for Ryzen 4,000 series processors and the launch of our new Ryzen 5000 series processors. Ryzen Mobile 5000 series processor revenue has ramped twice as fast as the prior generation.
We expect continued growth in 2021 as the number of notebook platforms powered by our new processors is on track to increase by 50% compared to our prior generation. We’re also making good progress in the commercial market as unit shipments of our Ryzen PRO processors grew by a strong double-digit percentage sequentially.
We secured multiple high-volume wins across Fortune 500 aerospace, automotive, electronics and engineering companies in the quarter, and we’re well-positioned for further growth as we have tripled our commercial notebook design wins with the largest OEMs this year.
In graphics, revenue increased by a strong double-digit percentage year-over-year and sequentially, led by channel sales growth as revenue from our high-end Radeon 6000 GPUs more than doubled from the prior quarter. We introduced our Radeon 6700 XT Desktop CPU with leadership 1440p gaming performance in March, and are on track for the first notebooks featuring our leading edge mobile RDNA 2 architecture to launch later this quarter. We expect Radeon 6000 series GPU sales to grow significantly over the coming quarters as we ramp production.
Data center graphics revenue grew year-over-year and sequentially, driven largely by adoption of Instinct accelerators across cloud and HPC customers. We are making great progress on our data center GPU roadmaps and expect revenue to grow in the second half of the year as we begin the production ramp of our next generation AMD Instinct GPU to support multiple HPC wins, including Frontier, the first U.S. exascale supercomputer.
Frontier will use next generation AMD CPUs, GPUs and software to deliver unprecedented scientific computing and AI capabilities, creating a blueprint for scientific, cloud and enterprise customers to enable exascale class computing and AI performance over the coming years.
Now turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-custom segment. Revenue increased 286% year-over-year to $1.35 billion, driven by strong growth in both semi-custom and EPYC processor sales. Semi-custom revenue declined by a single-digit percentage sequentially, which is better than typical seasonality. We expect semi-custom sales to remain strong throughout 2021, driven by significant demand for the latest generation Sony and Microsoft consoles.
In server, we delivered another quarter of record server processor revenue as EPYC processor sales more than doubled year-over-year and grew by a strong double-digit percentage sequentially.
Sales of both our second and third gen EPYC processors increased sequentially as growing adoption of our second gen offerings was complemented by third gen EPYC processors successfully ramping into production across multiple cloud and enterprise customers. Third gen EPYC processors offer 25% more performance per watt compared to our previous generation, and deliver both, per-socket and per-core leadership across database, ERP, data analytics, Java, virtualization, cloud and supercomputing workloads.
Cloud demand was particularly strong in the quarter as Tier 1 providers expanded their EPYC processors deployments to power more of their internal infrastructure and introduced 11 new AMD powered instances.
We expect the number of AMD powered instances to double by the end of the year to 400 as Microsoft Azure, Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle and Tencent significantly expand their offerings with third gen EPYC processors.
For the enterprise, Cisco, Dell, HP Enterprise, Lenovo, and Supermicro all announced plans to expand their AMD-based offerings, with more than 100 new third gen EPYC processor powered server platforms that deliver superior performance and total cost of ownership.
In HPC, we built momentum with new high-volume wins, including the National Center for Atmospheric Research, Sweden’s Institute of Science as well as a unique on-prem and cloud solution for the United Kingdom’s national weather modeling service that will be the world’s most powerful weather and climate forecasting supercomputer.
Taking a step back, I’m very pleased with the progress we have made in our data center business over the last several years as each new EPYC processor generation has ramped significantly faster than the previous generation.
We have established AMD as a trusted strategic partner to the largest cloud enterprise and HPC customers, based on developing and consistently delivering a leadership multi-generation CPU roadmap.
2021 marks an inflection point in terms of the scale, ecosystem support and customer adoption of our EPYC and Instinct processors.
In the first quarter, data center product revenue more than doubled year-over-year and represented a high-teens percentage of our overall revenue. We expect data center product revenue to grow significantly as we go through the year, driven by our strong pipeline of new cloud, enterprise and HPC wins.
We significantly accelerated our business in the first quarter and now see higher growth for the year, driven by increased customer adoption for our products, overall market strength and additional supply from our supply chain partners.
We also passed another major milestone with our pending acquisition of Xilinx in the quarter as shareholders voted overwhelmingly to approve the transaction. We remain on track to close the strategic acquisition by the end of the year.
In closing, we have entered a high-performance computing mega cycle with the strongest products and the deepest customer relationships in our history. Our success is built on delivering a consistent cadence of leadership products. We are increasing our R&D investments and aggressively driving our roadmaps to continue setting the pace of innovation for the industry and deliver best-in-class growth over the coming years.
Now, I’d like to turn the call over to the Devinder to provide some additional color on our first quarter financial performance defender. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone.
AMD had excellent execution and very strong financial performance in the first quarter. Our multi-generation product roadmap is driving significant revenue growth, and we delivered record financial results and free cash flow. Driven by this momentum, we delivered first quarter revenue of $3.45 billion, up 93% from a year ago, and up 6% from the prior quarter. Year-over-year growth was driven by strong increases in sales across all businesses.
Gross margin was 46%, flat from a year ago, despite significantly higher semi-custom product revenue. Operating expenses were $830 million, compared to $584 million a year ago, as we continue to invest in our business. Operating income was $762 million, up $526 million from a year ago, driven primarily by revenue growth. Operating margin increased from 13% a year ago to 22%. 
Net income was $642 million, up $420 million from a year ago, excluding $15 million of Xilinx acquisition-related costs. Diluted earnings per share was $0.52 per share, compared to $0.18 per share a year ago. Current quarter results include a 15% effective tax rate compared to a 3% tax rate a year ago. We continue to anticipate a cash tax rate of approximately 3% for 2021.
Now, turning to business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $2.1 billion, up 46% year-over-year due to the significantly higher client processor and graphics revenue. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $485 million, or 23% of revenue compared to $262 million a year ago.
Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-custom segment revenue was $1.35 billion, up 286% from $348 million the prior year. The revenue increase was driven by the ramp of semi-custom product sales and very strong growth in EPYC processor revenue, which more than doubled year-over-year. EESC segment operating income was $277 million or 21% of revenue compared to an operating loss of $26 million a year ago. The higher operating income was driven by higher revenue.
Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.1 billion, up from $2.3 billion at the end of the prior quarter. Inventory was $1.7 billion. Free cash flow was $832 million in the first quarter compared to negative free cash flow of $120 million in the first quarter of 2020. Principal debt was $314 million, including a $24 million reduction in our 2026 convertible notes, which have only $2 million remaining.
Let me turn to the outlook for the second quarter of 2021. Today’s outlook is based on current expectation and contemplates the current global supply environment and customer demand signals.
We expect revenue to be approximately $3.6 billion, plus or minus $100 million, an increase of approximately 86% year-over-year and an increase of approximately 4% sequentially. The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by growth in all businesses. The sequential increase is expected to be primarily driven by growth in data center and gaming.
In addition, for Q2 2021, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 47%; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $900 million; non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $130 million; and the diluted share count in the second quarter is expected to be approximately 1.23 billion shares.
For the full year 2021, we now expect revenue growth of approximately 50% over 2020, driven by growth across all businesses, up from the prior guidance of approximately 37%. We continue to expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 47%, non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 26% of revenue, non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 15%, and we expect the Company’s cash tax rate to be approximately 3%.
In closing, we had an excellent start in 2021 with very strong year-over-year growth in both segments. We continue to invest in the business and drive strong financial returns.
With that, I’ll turn it back to Ruth for the question-and-answer session. Ruth?
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, Devinder. And operator, if you’d like to poll the audience for questions, please?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Securities. Your line is now live.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, you’re guiding -- you’re increasing the full year guidance by almost $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion. Could you give us some sense of what has changed in the last three months? Because your competitor was recently talking about cloud digestion, and you’re raising guidance by $1.3 billion. So, I’m curious what changed in the last three months. And if you could help us parse which products or end markets are contributing to this increase, how much from servers or PC or semi-customer, or if there is any crypto impact? So, any color on what’s driving this really strong guidance and increase for the year would be very helpful.
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes, absolutely, Vivek. Thanks for the question. So, we are -- we started the year very strong, very pleased with the first quarter performance and what we see overall for the year. So, we are increasing our full year guidance. We exceeded in the first quarter, we guided up in the second quarter, and then that’s carrying through to the second half of the year.
What we’ve seen is the following. We came into the year with an overall strong demand picture, and that was certainly true. What we’ve seen over the last 90 days is consistent strong demand, very strong visibility from our customers on what they need throughout the year. Particularly, you asked about data center. I think, we saw actually strong signals in the first quarter that it would be a strong data center year for us.
We’re on a product ramp cycle. We launched new products in PCs on the mobile side with our Ryzen 5000. We launched new products on the graphics side with Radeon 6000. And then, the launch of the third-generation Milan has actually gone very, very well.
So, in terms of what we see, we see very strong demand for our products. We see good customer ordering patterns and strong backlog. And then, we have also seen that the supply chain has been tight overall for the semiconductor industry. And we’ve been working very closely with our supply chain partners. And so, we also have good visibility to additional supply as we go throughout the year. So, with all of that in place, I would say, we feel very good about how the year is shaping up.
In terms of where you see the strength overall, I would say it’s strength across all businesses, but particularly the strength in data center is good, and we also see just, again, very good visibility and very close working relationships with our customers.
You asked about crypto. We do not -- we have negligible crypto in here. So, this is really the foundational business, really the new products and just seeing the customers adopt and ramp quickly.
Vivek Arya
Got it, very helpful. And Lisa, for my follow-up, should we assume that now you are getting adequate supply, so you’re kind of caught up from a supply perspective and supply is no longer a constraint, or is that still a constraint? And if it is, in which end market? Because you’re keeping full year gross margins steady at 47%. So, I was curious if there is any impact from supply or rising input costs that could be impacting your gross margins, which you decided to keep to kind of flat versus your last outlook?
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes. I would say, Vivek, it’s still early in the year. So, the entire semiconductor supply chain is very, very tight. I think, you hear that from all of our peers in the marketplace. That being said, we’ve been working very closely with our supply chain partners. We have seen improvements that have led to the improved full year guide. We’re going to continue to work on that because right now, I would say the channel -- the inventories are very low throughout the entire supply chain, whether you talk about at our customers or in the channels. And so, there’s quite more that we would like to be able to do. That being the case, I think, we continue to work well with our partners and take lots of actions there.
As it relates to overall costs and things like that, we are watching those things, I think, from logistics and some of the component costs and things like that. So, there’s -- mostly the gross margin guidance is reflective of the fact that we do have ramping of our new products. And we also have some ramp of the gaming products, which are a little bit below corporate average. But, we’ll see how things progress as we go throughout the year.
Operator
Next question is coming from Blayne Curtis from Barclays. Your line is now live.
Blayne Curtis
Hey. Thanks for taking the question, and nice results. Maybe just following up on Vivek’s question. I was just curious, the semi-custom business obviously is not following any sort of seasonality, but there’s a lot of talk about supply constraints there as well. You basically saw no seasonality in March, and it seems like it’s not growing much in June. So, just maybe just, is that still impacted by maybe not your shortages but other shortages, and just any perspective on that business for the year?
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes. So thanks, Blayne, for the question. I think, the semi-custom business, if you look at the console launches that happened last year, I mean they were phenomenally good launches, right, very, very good products. So, you’re right. Seasonality is completely different this year than sort of a typical year. We had a strong first quarter better than seasonal. We were down but down single digits. There’s a bit of growth as we go through the year, but it’s just starting from such a high point in the first half of the year.
So, the way I would say it is, I think there is a strong secular demand for gaming. And whether you’re talking about consoles, or you’re talking about PC gaming, or you’re talking about the overall sort of gaming ecosystem, there’s a significant demand. And so, we believe there’s strong demand, and we’re continuing to ramp supply to meet that.
Blayne Curtis
And then, I just want to ask you on the competitive landscape on the client side. You clearly gained a couple of points of share in March. Intel was talking about they’re being more aggressive on their percent of 10-nanometer product. Maybe just talk about the competitive landscape as you look through the rest of the year? And are you seeing any change to that landscape as they ramp 10-nanometer?
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes. So, Blayne, I think, the PC business has certainly -- had a very strong second half of last year and is strong this year. I think, within that, we feel very good about our progress, particularly in notebooks and particularly in the premium segments of notebooks. So, we had a strong record quarter for our notebook business. Our ASPs were up sequentially and year-over-year. I think, we’re seeing traction in sort of the premium ultrathin, gaming and commercial. We feel very good about the platforms that we have and the platforms that we have throughout the year. Ryzen 5000 is a very competitive product. I will say that there are lots -- a bit of low-end units have come into the market, but our focus on the premium segments have done very well. So overall, pleased with the PC environment and feel that we’re very competitive.
Operator
Our next question is coming from Aaron Rakers from Wells Fargo. Your line is now live.
Aaron Rakers
Yes. Thanks for taking the question, and congratulations on the quarter. I wanted to ask a little bit about the server CPU cycle. I know, you’ve talked about kind of an expanding footprint with the cloud guys. But, I was curious of where we stand today, as far as more of the traditional OEMs, the progression of their systems. I think you said 100-plus systems. When do you think that those will all be shipping in the market? And how would you put the context of Milan relative to Rome on that front? And I have a follow-up.
Dr. Lisa Su
Sure. So, Aaron, the data center business obviously is a very strategic focus for us. And with EPYC with each generation, we’ve really tried to expand the reach. I think, here in the first quarter, what we saw is very strong results, doubling year-over-year. It is on the strength of cloud. But, what we saw was both Rome ramping, so we saw Rome units up sequentially, and we also saw Milan ramping. And what that says, this is what we expected. We actually expected that we had a good footprint in Rome and that that would continue to be well deployed as we come into the first half of this year, and that’s played out. And then, Milan is just a very, very good product. I mean, it’s extremely well positioned. Not only do we have per-socket leadership, but we have per-core leadership, which again expands the footprint.
So, in terms of your question about cloud versus enterprise, we were more cloud weighted in the first quarter as some of those instances, both internal and external, ramped. We would expect that enterprise, both enterprise as well as HPC deployments will increase as we go through the next couple of quarters. But we’ll see Rome and Milan in the market together all through this year, and we expect strong adoption on the enterprise side.
Aaron Rakers
Yes. And then, the other question kind of dovetailing off that is, you talked in response to a couple of different questions. You talked about visibility. Our visibility is very strong. It’s improved, et cetera. So, how would you characterize your visibility today relative to, let’s say, what it was three months ago? And what gives you the confidence? Has there been something that’s happened as far as discussions with the cloud guys, that’s given you more confidence in the visibility of the growth through the remainder of this year?
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes. So, Aaron, I mean we -- when we started this year, we expected to have a strong product cycle, just given everything that we saw in terms of platforms, design wins, sort of customer engagements and process. But, in the last 90 days, I think we’ve seen that really firm up. So, from the standpoint of just the consistency in all of the schedules that were supposed to be met, I think customers are liking what they see. We are having multi-quarter conversations. Just given the tightness overall in the supply chain, I think everyone is wanting to be clearer and more transparent about their needs. And that’s very helpful for us, frankly. That’s very helpful for us in a tight environment. It gives us the ability to plan several quarters out. And so, I think that’s the differences. We have strong visibility into what customers want and what we can deliver. And so, that gives us confidence that we have the right signals in place.
Operator
Our next question today is coming from Matt Ramsay from Cowen & Company. Your line is now live.
Matt Ramsay
Lisa, I wanted to ask a question about the enterprise notebook business. And I noticed you highlighted in the release and in the slides where you are in several different verticals in design wins on enterprise notebook in the Fortune 500. And I wonder if you might speak a little bit about the relationships that you’re building with the big enterprise customers? Do you have FAE support, software support, firmware support, et cetera? Do you have the right people in place to really ramp that business more materially going forward? Thanks.
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes, definitely, Matt. It’s been a high focus for us to ramp our enterprise notebook business as well as the enterprise server business. And they actually share many of the same customers and IT departments.
And so, yes, we’ve made very good progress on the enterprise notebook business. I think, we have a great set of platforms with our OEM partners. We’ve also ramped up our field application support and our customer engagement models for deployment. Overall, I think, we’ve gotten some very nice commercial notebook design wins.
And again, in this environment, for us, the important thing is to stay very focused on the longevity of the business that we win. And so, a lot of focus is on those commercial pipelines and how they develop, both on the notebook side as well as on the server side. And I think we’ve made good progress, but we still have a lot of opportunity to grow as we go through the coming quarters.
Matt Ramsay
Thanks for that. For my follow-up, it’s a bit unrelated. One of the businesses that maybe you’ve not had supply or there’s been other parts of the business growing much more quickly, I wanted to ask a bit about gaming. The new RDNA 2 architecture I think brings some new features, but obviously there’s a strong incumbent competitor in the gaming market. Maybe you could just talk about where you are competitively right now, how you see supply coming online that might support that gaming franchise a bit better, and just maybe the lay of the land in gaming right now? Because it’s one piece of the business that everything else is going so well, I think there are some opportunities there.
Dr. Lisa Su
Yes. So, the consumer graphics or the gaming graphics business, as you talk about, has actually done well for us. It grew double digits this past quarter. We had a very deliberate strategy here with the launch of RDNA 2. We started at the top of the stack with our big Navi product. And then, we’ve now introduced a couple of additional products. And you’ll see that both from the channel, sort of adding board cards into more OEM systems and notebook business as well as additional variants. So, it’s an important market segment for us. We’re happy with the progress. I think, gamers really appreciate the product.
It’s fair to say that the graphics demand is very high across the marketplace. So, we’ve actually put quite a bit of product into the market, but the demand still exceeds supply. You’ll see that increase as we go through the second half of the year. And overall, I think, the progress that we’ve made with RDNA 2 is fantastic, and we continue to believe that gaming overall is a great secular growth story.
Operator
Our next question today is coming from Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now liv