Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call January 26, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ruth Cotter - SVP, Worldwide Marketing, HR & IR
Lisa Su - President, CEO & Non-Independent Director
Devinder Kumar - EVP, CFO & Treasurer
Conference Call Participants
Blayne Curtis - Barclays Bank
Matthew Ramsay - Cowen and Company
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Stacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs Group
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
John Pitzer - Crédit Suisse
Mitchell Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley
Timothy Arcuri - UBS Investment Bank
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to the AMD Fourth Quarter 2020 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Ruth Cotter, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and Investor Relations. Ruth, please go ahead.
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, and welcome to AMD's fourth quarter and full year 2020 financial results conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings press release and accompanying slideware. If you have not reviewed these documents yet, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com. 
Participants on today's conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Devinder Kumar, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website. 
Before we begin, I would like to note that on the second of March, Mark Papermaster, Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President, Technology and Engineering, will attend the Morgan Stanley TMT Conference. In addition, our first quarter 2021 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday, March 12.
Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today and as such, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call. The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today's press release and slideware posted on amd.com.
Now with that, I'd like to hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Lisa Su
Thank you, Ruth, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. 2020 marked an inflection point in our long-term journey as we made significant progress establishing AMD as the high-performance computing leader. We significantly accelerated our business and exceeded our aggressive growth goals for the year, while navigating industry-wide challenges caused by COVID-19. 
We built substantial momentum throughout the year as we successfully ramped volume production of more than 20 7-nanometer PC, gaming and data center products.
Annual revenue grew 45%, setting a new record at $9.76 billion. We also expanded gross margin for the fifth straight year and more than doubled net income from the prior year.
While the PC market grew approximately 13% in 2020 to surpass more than 300 million units for the first time since 2014, our annual client processor revenue grew by more than 50% as AMD Ryzen processor adoption increased. We delivered record client annual processor revenue as we gained significant share in 2020.
Adoption of EPYC processors across cloud, enterprise and HPC customers also accelerated significantly in 2020. We set a new all-time record for annual server processor revenue. Server processor sales more than doubled year-over-year, and our overall data center sales are now a high-teens percentage of our total annual revenue. 
Looking at the fourth quarter, we ended the year very strong. Revenue grew 53% year-over-year to a record $3.24 billion, while net income increased 66%. 
Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment. Fourth quarter revenue increased 18% year-over-year to $1.96 billion. Desktop CPU revenue grew by a strong double-digit percentage year-over-year and sequentially, driven by strong demand for our Ryzen processor family in both OEM systems and the channel.
Sell-through of our new Ryzen 5000 processors featuring our Zen 3 core was particularly strong, more than doubling the launch quarter sales of any prior generation Ryzen desktop processor.
In mobile, CPU shipments increased by a double-digit percentage, both sequentially and year-over-year. We set records for both quarterly and annual mobile processor unit shipments as Ryzen 4000 notebook shipments continued to ramp in support of the 100 notebook design wins launched in 2020. 
At CES earlier this month, we launched our Ryzen 5000 mobile processors for ultrathin, gaming and commercial notebooks. These new mobile processors featuring our Zen 3 processor core, extend our performance and battery life leadership, delivering up to 23% higher performance compared to our previous generation and 17.5 hours of battery life.
We are on track to increase the number of notebook designs powered by our new Ryzen 5000 processors by 50% compared to our prior generation, positioning us well for further growth in 2021. 
In Graphics, revenue declined year-over-year and increased sequentially. Desktop GPU sales increased significantly from the prior quarter, driven by the ramp of our new Radeon 6000 Series GPUs, featuring our RDNA 2 architecture that deliver up to twice the performance and 65% more performance per watt than our prior generation.
We are seeing very strong demand for our new GPUs. The Radeon 6000 Series are our fastest-selling high-end GPUs ever, with launch quarter shipments 3x larger than any prior AMD gaming GPU priced above $549. We continue to ramp production to meet the strong demand, and are on track to expand our Radeon 6000 GPU portfolio in the first-half of the year with the new RDNA 2-based desktop and mobile GPUs.
Data center GPU revenue decreased year-over-year, but increased sequentially, including initial shipments of our AMD Instinct MI100 accelerator. MI100 features our new CDNA data center GPU architecture and is the industry's fastest HPC accelerator for scientific research, and the first data center GPU to break the 10 teraflops barrier.
We are making strong progress on our data center GPU hardware road map and expanding our software ecosystem in preparation for the launch of the first exascale supercomputer in the United States, the all-AMD powered Frontier system planned to go online later this year at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
Now turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Revenue of $1.28 billion increased 176% year-over-year, driven by strong growth in both semi-custom and server processor sales. Semi-Custom sales increased year-over-year and sequentially based on strong demand for the next-generation Sony and Microsoft consoles. Our Semi-Custom SoC sales are ramping faster than the last console cycle, and we expect sales to be better than typical seasonality in the first-half of this year based on the current strong demand. 
Now turning to server. We had record revenue in the fourth quarter as both cloud and enterprise sales grew sequentially. Cloud adoption remains strong as Google, Microsoft, Tencent and others continue expanding their use of EPYC processors to power larger portions of their critical internal infrastructure and the number of AMD-powered cloud instances expands.
28 new public cloud instances launched in the fourth quarter from Alibaba, AWS and Oracle, while Google expanded general availability of their confidential computing VMs powered exclusively by EPYC processors to nine regions. 
For the year, the number of AMD-powered instances available from the largest cloud providers doubled to more than 200. In the enterprise, adoption of AMD-powered servers grew as Dell, HPE and Lenovo secured new end customer wins with Fortune 1000 accounts across key verticals, including manufacturing, financial services and automotive.
In HPC, the number of AMD-powered supercomputers on the November top 500 list increased to 21 systems, including two of the top 10 and the fastest supercomputer in Europe. 
We expect our data center business to accelerate in 2021 as we further extend our performance, efficiency and TCO leadership with the launch of our next-gen server processors codenamed Milan. Milan production began in the fourth quarter as planned, with initial shipments to cloud and HPC customers. We are very pleased with the performance of Milan.
We conducted the first public preview of Milan at CES, highlighting 68% better performance compared to two of the highest-end dual-socket processors from our competition when running a compute-intensive weather modeling simulation. We're on track to publicly launch our third gen EPYC Milan processors in March with very strong ecosystem support.
In summary, our strong 2020 results and 2021 guidance demonstrate the growing momentum for our leadership product portfolio and the robust demand for high-performance computing. In the last year, we have all seen firsthand the essential role high-performance computing now plays in our daily lives, and we expect adoption to accelerate over the coming years as we enter a high-performance computing mega cycle, driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing services, accelerating digital transformation of industries and experiences, the transition to exascale supercomputing and the mainstream adoption of AI. 
Against this backdrop, we are very confident we have the right long-term strategy and capabilities to deliver a strong cadence of leadership products and make AMD the premier technology growth franchise. Longer term, our strategic acquisition of Xilinx further strengthens our technology capabilities and positions us well for growth across a broader set of markets. We passed several important regulatory milestones to date, and remain on track to close the transaction by the end of 2021. 
I am very proud of what AMD has accomplished over the last few years as our talented and dedicated employees established a new pace for innovation in the high-performance computing industry. I'm even more excited about what we can accomplish over the coming years based on our road maps and the strong opportunities we see to play an even larger strategic role with our customers and partners. 
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our fourth quarter and full year financial performance. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. 2020 was an outstanding year for AMD. Our industry-leading product portfolio and market share gains drove record annual and quarterly revenue with full year revenue growth of 45%. We also achieved record annual net income and free cash flow. We are pleased with our strong performance and the leverage in our financial model.
Fourth quarter revenue was $3.24 billion, up 53% from a year ago and up 16% from the prior quarter driven by strong sales of Ryzen and EPYC processors and semi-custom game console SoCs. Gross margin was 45%, approximately flat year-over-year. Operating expenses were $789 million, up 45% year-over-year driven by increased investments in R&D go-to-market activities and higher variable employee compensation-related expenses.
Operating income was $663 million, up $258 million or 64% from a year ago driven by significant revenue growth, and operating margin was 20% compared to 19% a year ago. Net income was $636 million, up $253 million or 66% from a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was $0.52 compared to $0.32 per share a year ago.
Now turning to the business segment results. Fourth quarter Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $1.96 billion, up 18% year-over-year primarily driven by significant Ryzen processor growth. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $420 million, or 21% of revenue compared to $360 million a year ago driven by higher revenue.
Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment revenue was $1.28 billion, up 176% year-over-year driven by strong semi-custom product sales and continued EPYC server processor momentum across the cloud and enterprise markets. EPYC processor revenue grew sequentially, including early shipments of third-generation EPYC Milan processors. EESC segment operating income was $243 million or 19% of revenue compared to an operating income of $45 million a year ago driven by higher revenue.
Turning to the balance sheet. We had record free cash flow of $480 million in the fourth quarter. Inventory was $1.4 billion, up 8% from the prior quarter in preparation of 2021 sales. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $753 million compared to $469 million a year ago, driven by higher quarterly earnings.
Before I turn to the full year financial results, let me address a GAAP tax item. Based on our financial results and strong outlook, we released a significant portion of our tax valuation allowance totaling $1.3 billion which had a GAAP EPS benefit of $1.06 in the fourth quarter and a benefit of $1.07 for the full year.
Now let me turn to our full year financial results. 2020 revenue was $9.76 billion, up 45% year-on-year driven by strong growth in both business segments. Gross margin of 45% was up 190 basis points from the prior year driven by Ryzen and EPYC products, partially offset by semi-custom and Radeon product sales.
Operating expenses were 28% of revenue, improving from 31% in 2019. 2020 operating income was up 97% from a year ago to $1.66 billion or 17% of revenue. Net income was $1.58 billion, up 108% from the prior year.
Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.3 billion at year-end and full year free cash flow was $777 million as compared to $276 million in 2019. We reduced principal debt by $225 million in 2020 and ended the year with $338 million of gross debt. Now turning to the outlook for the first quarter of 2021. We expect revenue to be approximately $3.2 billion, plus or minus $100 million an increase of approximately 79% year-over-year and down 1% sequentially. The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by growth in all businesses. The sequential performance is driven primarily by better than normal seasonality in our PC and semi-custom businesses and strength in our data center business. In addition, for Q1 2021, we expect: non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 46%; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $830 million; non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $105 million, including an effective tax rate of 15%; and first quarter diluted share count is expected to be approximately 1.23 billion shares.
For the full year 2021, we expect revenue growth of approximately 37% driven by growth in all businesses; we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 47%; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 26% of revenue; non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 15%; and we expect the company's cash tax rate to be approximately 3%.
In closing, I'm very pleased with our 2020 results, which demonstrate the strength of AMD's product momentum, customer traction and market share gains. As we enter 2021, and continue to invest in the business and execute our long-term strategy, we are well positioned to drive gross margin expansion, increase profitability and deliver strong shareholder returns.
With that, I'll turn it back to Ruth for the question-and-answer session. Ruth?
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, Devinder. Operator, please poll the audience for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Our first question today is coming from Blayne Curtis from Barclays. Your line is now live.
Blayne Curtis
Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question, and congrats on the very strong results. But maybe first, just on the annual guide, obviously, very robust. You said all segments up. But I was wondering if you could provide any color either by segment or by product, which ones would be better or worse than that very robust 37%.
Lisa Su
Sure. So thanks for the question, Blayne. Look, we're excited going into 2021. Obviously, 2020 was quite a strong growth year for us. As we look at the annual guidance, we really do see strength across all of our businesses. So the -- it's led by our larger businesses. So significant growth -- we expect significant growth in server, growth in PCs, as well as growth in the semi-customer console business.
But we also see growth in our graphics business across consumer and data center graphics as we ramp the full product lines there as we go through 2021. So overall, I think, we're seeing the strength of the new product portfolio as well as a positive demand environment.
Blayne Curtis
Thanks. And then maybe as just a follow-up, I'm curious on how you think about the shape of the year. Obviously, March seems to be much better than seasonal across several product lines. I'm just curious how you're thinking about the overall PC market. I think Intel talked about for being first-half weighted. And then obviously, semi-custom, you probably didn't as much in December as you did the first three quarters of 2020. Kind of curious how you just think about first-half, second-half within that?
Lisa Su
Yes. So, you saw that a little bit in our Q1 guidance. I think our Q1 guidance is better than normal seasonality. We normally see the first-half weaker than the second-half just given the consumer bent. What we see this year is a little bit of a different shape. The shape is -- from a market standpoint, we see PCs and gaming better than seasonal. There's some pent-up demand coming into the first-half of the year, and that's baked into the guidance.
But we're also seeing a strong data center environment. So we see server up sequentially in Q1, and that's on the strength of both our current products or our Rome products as well as the Milan ramp. So a little bit different shape than normal, but I think we see strong demand across our PC gaming and data center segments.
Blayne Curtis
Thank you.
Lisa Su
Thanks, Blayne.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Matt Ramsay from Cowen. Your line is now live.
Matthew Ramsay
Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Lisa, Devinder, Happy New Year. I wanted to start with server, and I've modeled a much bigger dollar contribution in 2021 to the growth than there had been in prior years. And I picked up in the prepared script, Lisa, that you mentioned accelerating growth for your data center franchise in 2021. I think that's probably off a business that doubled last year.
So do I have that right that it will accelerate in percentage terms? And maybe you could break down a little bit. I saw Alibaba in the slides announced, there's a Milan launch coming that I think could push you into enterprise a little bit more than you've been in the past. Some drivers of that server growth would be really helpful? Thank you.
Lisa Su
Yes. Sure. So, Matt, thanks for the question. We are happy with the progress in the data center business. I think 2020 was a strong year for us. We do see a significant growth into 2021.
I think there are a number of drivers. First of all, I think, we're seeing the cloud business strengthen for us. So going into the first-half of the year, and as I said, that's both on the current generation Rome as well as the next-generation Milan.
The reception to Milan is very strong. So we're pleased with the performance. We started shipments in Q4. That's continuing into Q1. You'll see -- we expect to see sort of more customers, sort of new customers adopt Milan than perhaps that had been on our previous generation. You'll also see a very strong enterprise portfolio.
So I think we have a very strong time-to-market platforms with the key OEMs, and that's part of our launch plan later this quarter. So overall, I think we are optimistic about the data center in 2021. I think there's a lot of need across cloud and enterprise, and we think Milan is very well positioned.
Matthew Ramsay
Thank you for that, Lisa. My second question, I wanted to ask a little bit about supply. It's no secret that the industry is supply constrained, both due to growth and because of some of the challenges with COVID, and your company is no different. Maybe you could characterize for us the magnitude of supply constraints. And how much they might have been hindering what was obviously really strong growth as it was? But that's number one.
And then number two, I noticed that a lot of folks had maybe thought that the big CapEx increase from TSMC might have been something to do with Intel. And I think the incoming CEO there has maybe clarified some of those thoughts. But I wonder as you look forward through this year, how your guidance incorporates increasing supply coming online. And if you've guided to an assumption of better supply or what you have line of sight to with your partners? Thanks.
Lisa Su
Yes, sure. So certainly, when I look at the semiconductor environment in 2020, it was very strong. So we saw a strong revenue ramp in our business as well as across some of our peers. It's fair to say that the overall demand exceeded our planning. And as a result, we did have some supply constraints as we ended the year. Those were primarily, I would say, in the PC market, the low end of the PC market and in the gaming markets.
That being said, I think, we're getting great support from our manufacturing partners. The industry does need to increase the overall capacity levels. And so we do see some tightness through the first-half of the year, but there's added capacity in the second-half.
And then as - in terms of how we think about these things. So for our full-year annual guide, we do have good visibility on both the demand side and the supply side and that was the basis for the guidance across the businesses.
Matthew Ramsay
Thanks, Lisa. Appreciate it.
Lisa Su
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America. Your line is now live.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question, and congratulations on the strong outlook despite all the industry constraints. Lisa, just one question to go back to a prior one. I was hoping you could help us dissect Q1 and the 2021 outlook with and without your semi-custom business, so we get a sense for the different moving drivers of the business, both in Q1 and for the full-year?
Lisa Su
Yes. So let's see. Let me start with Q1. So as I said in the -- earlier that we do see the PC market and the console business a bit better than seasonal. Normally, consoles would be seasonally down quite a bit double digits. You would expect consoles this quarter will still be, let's call it, modestly down. We do see a sequential increase in the server business as well as in the graphics business as we ramp new products there.
And then as we go into the 2021, I would say, we're now at the place where we have, let's call it, three businesses at scale. And so the guidance really encompasses very significant growth across our data center business in the server space, growth in PCs, just given the visibility that we have around platforms and platform launches on both the notebook side and the strength of our channel portfolio. And then we do see growth in the console business as well as there's a lot of demand for the new consoles.
So I think those are the three big drivers for the full-year. And I would say, it's well balanced between the three. And then in addition, we also have growth in our consumer and data center GPU business as a result of some of the new products launched there. So it's a fairly, let's call it, broad-based set of drivers, particularly around the product launches.
Vivek Arya
Got it. And for my follow-up, it's interesting that as you're launching Milan, your competitor is also launching their data center server. And so both kind of a near term and then a '21 question. So in the near term, there has been some discussion of cloud digestion. I know you're talking about your business actually growing sequentially. So I was hoping you could address what demand environment you were seeing in the very near term from your cloud and enterprise and HPC customers.
But looking out to 2021, both you and your competitor will actually be on very -- almost the same manufacturing node. So how do you think that will play a role in your decision-making of your customers. Because I think a lot of times the discussion kind of becomes one dimensional on who is at which manufacturing node. So talk to us about, even if you are on the same node as your competitor, what's your ability and confidence and visibility to take market share in the server CPU business.
Lisa Su
Yes. Thanks, Vivek. That's a very good question. So in the near term, what we're seeing in the cloud is actually a period of strong demand. And so that's -- we saw it strengthening as we went through the fourth quarter, and we see demand environment robust in the first quarter. So I think that's a -- those are good signals for us.
I think for the year 2021, we're excited about Milan. I mean it's a very strong product. You've already seen a bit of what Zen 3 can do in just our desktop and notebook portfolio. I think it builds upon what we did in Rome. So I completely agree with you. I think manufacturing technology is one aspect of what makes a product competitive, but we have been very focused on overall performance, overall system performance, how it performs in the cloud and enterprise environments. I will say that I think Milan is the most balanced product that we have. Both for, let's call it, enterprise applications as well as for the broad set of cloud applications.
And in terms of visibility, I would say that we have better visibility starting this year than we've had in the past years because this is our third-generation with EPYC. So we're now on, let's call it, deep customer relationships. Many of the decisions have been made earlier as they were testing out our product. And we have good confidence that we're going to ramp well. So exciting year for the data center. But certainly, we're pleased with how Milan is performing and the interest in the marketplace.
Operator
Our next question is coming from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research.
Stacy Rasgon
I wanted to start on margins first. So in the quarter, you had record server revenues, you said high teens, I'd put it to something like $550 million or $600 million which looks pretty good. At the same time, like gross margins sort of barely came in line with guidance. I mean they actually missed by a few kind of tens of basis points. I guess I'm just a little surprised, is that all console mix? And was consoles like that much better-than-expected relative to servers that you wouldn't see gross margin upside in the quarter? And I guess the same comments on the guide a little bit of upside. But at the same time, we've got consoles down. We've got everything else growing, and yet we've only got a little bit of upside in gross margins. So I guess if you could help me square that or square that with what you're seeing, that would be helpful, please.
Lisa Su
Yes, sure, Stacy. Be happy to do that. So first, on the fourth quarter. I think we saw strength across a couple of different businesses relative to what we had guided. So we saw strength -- a little bit of strength in the console business, some strength in servers as well as some strength in PCs. And PCs in the fourth quarter tend to be a bit more weighted to the consumer side of the business. So those were some of the puts and takes. But from an overall sort of margin expectation standpoint, I think we were right where we expected to be.
And then going into 2021, if you're talking about the first quarter guide, I think my commentary was that we see PCs and consoles a bit better than seasonal. So consoles would normally be let's call it, down double digits, and that's not the case in this particular quarter. We have server up. And so again, these are just a few puts and takes, but we do see the sequential increase into Q1. And then for the full year, as we see the mix of business.
Stacy Rasgon
Got it. I guess for my follow-up, just to push on that