Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) Q3 2020 Earnings Conference Call October 27, 2020  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Ruth Cotter - SVP, Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and IR
Lisa Su - President and CEO
Devinder Kumar - SVP, CFO and Treasurer
Victor Peng - President and CEO, Xilinx
Conference Call Participants
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Hans Mosesmann - Rosenblatt Securities
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo
Operator
Greetings and welcome to the AMD Third Quarter 2020 and Xilinx Acquisition Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ruth Cotter, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and Investor Relations. Ruth, please go ahead.
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, and good morning everyone joining our call today. Participants on our conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Devinder Kumar, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; and Victor Peng, President and Chief Executive Officer of Xilinx.
This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website, amd.com. We've a content-rich call for you this morning. So I refer you to our website ir.amd.com for a copy of our third quarter 2020 financial results, including detailed slideware, our acquisition of Xilinx announcement and other helpful materials, including a presentation outlining the details of the acquisition.
Before we begin, please note that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations speak only as of the current date, and as such, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the cautionary statement in each press release for more information on risks related to any forward-looking statements that we may make. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial metrics during this call. The non-GAAP financial measures referenced are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in today's press release and slides posted on our website.
Now, with that, I'd like to hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Lisa Su
Thank you, Ruth, and good morning to all those listening in.
Today marks a significant milestone in our journey to establish AMD as the industry's high-performance computing leader. Before going into details on our strategic acquisition of Xilinx, I'd like to start with our very strong financial results.
Our business accelerated in the third quarter, resulting in record quarterly revenue with net income and EPS more than doubling year-over-year. Revenue grew 56% year-over-year to $2.8 billion, driven by strong demand for our Ryzen, EPYC and Semi-Custom processors.
Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment, third quarter revenue of $1.67 billion grew 31% year-over-year as higher Ryzen processor sales more than offset lower graphic sales. Our client processor business is performing extremely well. Desktop and notebook processor ASPs increased and total unit shipments grew by a strong double-digit percentage, both on a year-over-year and sequential basis. As a result, we set a record for quarterly client processor revenue and believe we gained client CPU share for the 12th straight quarter.
In mobile, we set records for both quarterly notebook processor unit shipments and revenue as OEM sell-through doubled year-over-year. We have the strongest notebook processor portfolio in our history. More than 105 AMD-based notebooks have launched in 2020 as we expand our presence in segments like gaming, commercial and education, where we have traditionally been underrepresented.

In commercial, the number of AMD-based business notebooks for major OEMs has doubled year-over-year and we are building significant momentum based on the superior performance and battery life of our Ryzen Pro processors. Our progress in the third quarter was highlighted by winning multiple large-scale deployments with Fortune 1,000, automotive, banking and pharmaceutical companies.
Earlier this month, we announced our upcoming Ryzen desktop processors would be the first to feature our newest Zen 3 core. I'm incredibly proud of what our CPU team has achieved with Zen 3.
We have significantly enhanced nearly every aspect of the core to deliver a 19% increase in Instructions Per Clock compared to Zen 2. As a result, our Ryzen 5000 desktop processors deliver absolute performance leadership across gaming, productivity and creative workloads and are positioned to drive the biggest shift in the PC landscape since we launched the original Ryzen processor in 2017.
In Graphics, revenue declined year-over-year, and increased sequentially as we prepare to launch our next generation Radeon GPUs this quarter. Mobile GPU sales grew by a double-digit percentage year over year, led by solid demand for our Radeon Pro 5000 M series powering Apple's MacBook Pro.
We are very excited about our RDNA 2 graphics architecture launching later this week that delivers significant generational increases in both performance and performance per watt. Our next generation Radeon RX 6000 graphics cards powered by RDNA 2 are by far the most powerful gaming GPUs we have ever built and will return AMD to the high end of the graphics market.
Data center GPU revenue increased sequentially and year-over-year based on new cloud-based visual computing wins. Our Radeon Instinct accelerators continue gaining momentum in the HPC market. Recently announced wins include Australia's most powerful supercomputer, as well as the new LUMI supercomputer in Finland that is expected to deliver over 550 petaflops of peak performance.
Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, revenue of $1.13 billion increased 116% year-over-year, driven by strong growth in both Semi-Custom and Server processor sales.
In Semi-Custom, we ramped production and shipments of our next generation game console SoCs to support the November launches of the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and Series S consoles. We now expect Semi-Custom shipments and revenue to increase sequentially in the fourth quarter based on strong demand.
Turning to Server, we set a record for quarterly Server processor revenue as sales grew a double-digit percentage sequentially and more than doubled year-over-year, driven by growing cloud and enterprise adoption. In cloud, the largest hyperscale customers expanded their second-gen EPYC processor deployments across both their internal infrastructures and publicly-available instances.
In the third quarter, Microsoft Azure expanded their AMD offerings to 18 regions and nine availability zones and launched new data analytic services powered by second-gen EPYC processors that deliver 30% better performance than competitive offerings. Amazon rolled out multiple new high-performance AMD instances and Google announced general availability of their cloud confidential virtual machines powered exclusively by second-gen EPYC processors.
Enterprise data center adoption continue to accelerate as well. We added multiple Fortune 1000 customer wins in the quarter across key verticals, including financial services, automotive and EDA, based on the performance and TCO advantages of EPYC processors.
We are on track to begin volume shipments of our next generation Milan server processors with Zen 3 to cloud and select HPC customers this quarter. We expect Tier 1 OEM platform availability to follow in the first quarter of 2021. Customer interest in Milan is very high.

We are seeing hyperscale HPC and OEM customers engage deeper and broader for Milan than they did, prior to the launch of our second-gen EPYC processors. We believe we are well-positioned for continued share gains based on our expanding cloud engagements, strong supercomputing wins, and the more than 100 new or refreshed Milan platforms in development.
In summary, our strong third quarter results and fourth quarter outlook demonstrate the acceleration in our business. We are successfully executing our strategy to drive best-in-class growth based on delivering leading edge CPUs, GPUs and differentiated solutions for the PC, gaming and data center markets. We feel very confident our next generation Zen 3 CPUs, RDNA 2 GPUs, and CDNA accelerators can drive further share gains and growth in 2021 and beyond.
Now, let's turn to the transaction. Looking out over the next decade, high-performance computing is increasingly at the center of nearly every major trend shaping the future. Whether in the cloud, at the edge, or across the growing number of intelligent end devices, we are seeing increasing demand for high-performance computing, which enables a host of new experiences and services.
While our CPUs and GPUs will remain critical engines for those devices in a world where algorithms are always advancing and new standards are continually emerging, we see demand growing for adaptive computing capabilities that can accelerate evolving workloads.
That is why, today, I'm excited to outline the next leg in our journey with the strategic acquisition of Xilinx. Together, we will create the industry's high-performance computing leader and the partner of choice for the largest and most important technology companies. Xilinx is the ideal match for AMD.
As the industry's number one provider of FPGAs and adaptive SoCs, they are the market leader. Xilinx is successfully executing multi-generation hardware and software roadmaps to extend that leadership. Xilinx is a technology leader. Beyond their core innovation in FPGAs and associated software design environments, they have industry-leading capabilities in SoC design, serdes and high-speed IO, mixed signal RF, advanced 2.5 and 3-D silicon integration and packaging, as well as targeted software stacks for key verticals.
Xilinx has also built deep strategic partnerships across a diverse set of growing markets. In 5G communications, datacenter, automotive, industrial, aerospace and defense, Xilinx has established themselves as a strategic technology partner to a broad set of industry leaders. Lastly Xilinx has a very strong business model characterized by long product lifecycles with the best-in-class gross margin profile and significant free cash flow generation.
As we bring AMD and Xilinx together, there are considerable product technology market and financial benefits. AMD will offer the strongest portfolio of high-performance and adaptive computing products in the industry spanning leadership CPUs, GPUs, FPGAs and adaptive SoCs. This will enable us to take a leadership position, accelerating a diverse set of emerging workloads from AI to smart networking and software-defined infrastructure.
And while our product portfolios are highly complementary, our approach to technology development is actually very similar. Both companies are laser-focused on developing leadership products based on multi-generation architectures, modular SoC designs, leading-edge manufacturing and advanced packaging technologies. In manufacturing, we will be able to apply learnings from AMD's early adoption and high-volume production ramp of advanced process nodes across Xilinx's products.
In packaging, Xilinx has demonstrated leadership and significant IP in the 2.5-D and 3-D die stacking technologies that are becoming increasingly important as Moore's Law slows.

Looking beyond hardware, we see opportunities to combine our open source software offerings into a unified stack, optimized to accelerate computing at the platform and the system level. By combining our efforts, we bring together two world-class engineering teams with the technology capability and scale to build even stronger products and solutions.
From a market perspective, we will cover the most important markets and customers in the world. We will have a combined TAM of $110 billion, building on AMD's $80 billion dollar TAM, with an additional $30 billion of very attractive Xilinx TAM. As we look at growth drivers in the three to five-year timeframe, we see significant revenue synergy opportunities that can build on AMD's strong organic growth.
In the data center, our EPYC processors have a strong foundation with the largest hyperscale cloud providers. We're also gaining significant momentum with enterprise customers and playing a leading role in supercomputing where our products are powering the world's most powerful exascale computers.
Xilinx has also invested significantly in the data center with leadership networking computing and storage technologies, notably with significant SmartNIC wins with global hyperscalers. Together, we will be a stronger strategic force powering the next-generation data center.
To drive longer term adoption of our processors in the telecom, edge, industrial and networking markets, where we have a nation presence today, we can offer solutions that combine our CPU and GPU compute engines with Xilinx's flexible accelerators, SmartNIC products, software stacks and domain expertise to unlock additional levels of performance on critical workloads.
In Telecom, for instance, where Xilinx has solutions capabilities and relationships with industry leaders, including Samsung and Ericsson, we will now have an accelerated path to market to better address the largely untapped $5 billion market opportunity for our EPYC processors.
Financially, the acquisition diversifies our revenue streams and is expected to be immediately accretive to margins, EPS and free cash flow generation, all while delivering industry-leading growth.
Finally, I would like to talk about culture. For the last several years, AMD has collaborated with Xilinx as a close partner and I've had the chance to get to know Victor and his leadership team. I can unequivocally say that the Xilinx team is one of the best in the industry and I'm thrilled to welcome them to the AMD family. Both AMD and Xilinx share a common culture, focused on innovation, execution and collaborating deeply with customers.
From a leadership standpoint, Victor and I have a shared vision of where we can take high-performance and adaptive computing in the future, and I'm extremely happy that he will be joining AMD as President responsible for the Xilinx business and strategic growth initiatives after the deal closes.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our third quarter performance and some specific financial details of the acquisition. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar
Thank you, Lisa.
Let me start first with our third quarter results. Third quarter revenue was $2.8 billion, up 56% from a year ago, driven by very strong Ryzen and EPYC processor sales and the ramp of our new Semi-Custom SoCs. Gross margin was 44%, up 1 percentage point from a year ago, driven by server and client processor sales.
Operating expenses was $706 million compared to $539 million a year ago, driven by increases in R&D and marketing as we accelerated investments in the business to drive future market growth and higher variable compensation-related expense. Operating income more than doubled year-over-year to $525 million, up $285 million or 119% from a year ago, driven primarily by significantly higher revenue.

Net income was $501 million, up $282 million or 129% from a year ago, and diluted earnings per share was $0.41 per share, more than double the $0.18 per share a year ago.
Turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $1.8 billion. We reduced principal debt by $365 million in the quarter, including $200 million of our revolving line of credit and $165 million of convertible senior notes. Conversion of the senior notes resulted in a $38 million non-cash GAAP charge and the issuance of $20 million shares with no impact to diluted share count. Total principal debt outstanding was $398 million at the end of the quarter.
Free cash flow was $265 million. In addition, our senior unsecured credit rating was raised to investment grade by Moody's investor service in the third quarter, reflecting our strong financial results and outflow.
Let me turn to the fourth quarter guidance. Today's outlook is based on current expectations. We expect revenue to be approximately $3 billion plus or minus $100 million, an increase of approximately 41% year-over-year, and 7% sequentially. In addition, for Q4 2020, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 45%, non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $750 million, non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $30 million, and the diluted share count in the fourth quarter is expected to be approximately 1.23 billion shares.
For the full year 2020, we now expect higher year-over-year revenue growth of approximately 41% driven by the strength of our PC gaming and data center products. We continue to expect gross margin of approximately 45% for the full year, up one percentage point from the prior year.
Now I'd like to turn to today's announcement. We have signed a definitive agreement to acquire Xilinx in a strategic transaction valued at $35 billion. This is a very compelling transaction from a financial perspective. Xilinx has a strong business model characterized by long product life cycles, best-in-class margins, and strong cash flow, all of which are significantly additive to AMD's financial model.
The acquisition is expected to be immediately accretive to gross and operating margins, EPS and free cash flow generation, and the combined company is expected to continue to deliver industry-leading growth.
In addition, we believe we can achieve approximately $300 million of overall cost savings on an annualized basis within 18 months of closing the transaction. Based on the trailing 12 months, the two companies combined would have had revenue of $11.6 billion, gross margin of 51% operating profit of approximately 21% and generated approximately 1.8 billion of free cash flow.
Turning to the capital structure. The balance sheet of the combined company will be very strong with low leverage and an investment grade profile. On a combined basis, as of the most recent quarter of both companies, the total cash balance is $4.9 billion and the debt is $2.4 billion with a gross leverage of 0.85 times.
Now let me cover some details of the transaction structure. At close, Xilinx shareholders will receive 1.7234 shares of AMD for each common share of Xilinx. This represents approximately $143 per share of Xilinx based on AMD's Vitis for the 10 trading day period up to and including October 8.
The pro forma ownership would be approximately 74% for AMD shareholders, and 26% for Xilinx shareholders. We currently expect the acquisition to close by the end of calendar year 2021 subject to required approvals and other customary closing conditions. Until then, the two companies remain separate and will operate independently.
Today is an exciting day for AMD on many fronts. We are very pleased with our market and financial momentum. Our strong lineup of products continues to drive strong revenue growth, margin expansion and improved profitability. Our acquisition of Xilinx is additive to our financial model and is expected to result in meaningful revenue synergy opportunities over the longer term.

Let me now turn it over to Xilinx CEO, Victor Peng for some remarks. Victor?
Victor Peng
Thanks Devinder.
Let me start by echoing Lisa's enthusiasm about the combination of two premier semiconductor companies, and the many opportunities that will create for our customers, our employees and for our shareholders. The exponential growth of unstructured data, the rapid expansion of connected devices, and the plethora of data-intensive applications with embedded AI are driving the need for more efficient high performance computing solutions.
AMD and Xilinx together will accelerate our ability to define this new year of computing by providing the most comprehensive product portfolio and computing solutions. Our products will power a wide range of intelligent applications from the largest data center to the edge and to the smallest end point. This extended product portfolio together with our industry-leading engineering capabilities, and market expertise will enable our customers to deploy differentiated solutions to market faster.
Our companies share the same vision for transforming people's lives through high performance computing. As Lisa mentioned, we have very similar cultures of innovation, execution excellence and collaboration that make this an exciting new chapter for Xilinx employees. I'm excited about the future of the combined company and accelerating our opportunities to grow the business and lead the new era of computing.
And on a personal note, this is my second time joining AMD and to do that with the Xilinx's team just couldn't be more thrilling for me. The Xilinx shareholders, this transaction provides a great opportunity for long-term value creation given the significant diversification benefits they will receive to exposure to a broader, a much larger growth business when this transaction closes. So I very much look forward to bringing our great companies together.
Let me now turn it back to Lisa.
Lisa Su
Thanks Victor.
To sum up, we are very pleased with the acceleration of our business in the third quarter. We are on track to deliver significant annual revenue growth this year and have never been more confident in our trajectory. Our strategic acquisition of Xilinx is compelling for all stakeholders with significant value creation for AMD and Xilinx shareholders who will benefit from the future growth and upside potential of the combined company.
We have always been very ambitious in our goals. The acquisition of Xilinx is a natural next step in our journey. Xilinx is an ideal match for AMD combining a highly complementary set of products, customers and markets with differentiated IT and world-class talent.
With that, let's go to questions please. Ruth?
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, Lisa. And Kevin, if you could poll the audience for questions please. And we request that the audience stick to two questions, one, as it pertains to the third quarter and one on today's news of the acquisition. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Matt Ramsay from Cowen. Your line is now live.
Matt Ramsay
I know a lot of folks who will probably say congratulations but Lisa, Victor I really mean it from our end. I think a great outcome from all everybody, stakeholders. I guess my first question, Lisa, on the deal, I noticed in the slides that you guys put together, obviously, a pro forma model that combines the companies as of the end of the third quarter. But you also mentioned as you did at your Analyst Day back in February a 20% growth CAGR for the business.
I wonder if that might apply to the two companies after you put them together post-close and how confident you are in that growth rate given that in the recent times maybe Xilinx growth has been a little bit slower than the core AMD business growth, but obviously, there is revenue synergy potential as well. So any comments there would be helpful. Thank you.

Lisa Su
Yes, absolutely. Matt, thanks for the question. So first of all, we feel we're really excited about today. We feel great about our base business. I think you can see that in the strength of our results in the third quarter and our full-year updated guidance, that strategy is playing out very well as we expected with very strong products driving market momentum.
As we look forward at our Financial Analyst Day we talked about 20% CAGR as the right target for our company. I think all of that stays on track. We are a high growth business and we want to remain a high growth business. I think Xilinx brings them a lot of opportunities that are additive to that model, when you look at the markets and the capabilities and just the margins in the free cash flow generation. So a 20% CAGR is the right target for the combined business, I think we feel very good about the organic growth and we feel very good about the growth initiatives that Victor has started.
Matt Ramsay
Yes. Thank you for clearing that up, I appreciate it. My question on sort of the results in the core business, you guys put up server revenue sales that more than doubled year-over-year. Your competitor had some rather interesting set of results, some pretty disappointing results I think from their enterprise and government segments, and they guided for their combined data centric business. I know that's not exactly the same as server, but they guided for that to be down I think 25% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
You guys have some momentum you're going to launch Milan, and I think you mentioned in the release some progress on the enterprise side as well. But maybe, Lisa, you get back up and give us your context of where the server market is overall right now and how it might mean - what it might mean for your revenue into the fourth quarter. Thank you.
Lisa Su
Sure, Matt. So look the data center business particularly on the server side is very important to us. We performed very well here in the third quarter, as you said double from a year-over-year standpoint, sequential double-digit growth. We see good momentum across the cloud hyperscalers as well as in the enterprise business. We have more platforms that continue to launch here in the third quarter.
As we look forward from a data center environment, I would say that the overall data center environment is actually good. As we go here into the fourth quarter, we are starting to launch Milan in terms of shipments to cloud, as well as some HPC customers this quarter. OEMs are preparing to launch Milan platforms in the first quarter. And I would say it's very much a customer specific message. Some of our cloud customers are going to continue to ramp Rome in the fourth quarter. Several are also preparing for our transition from Rome to Milan.
But overall, we believe that the demand environment is good and the thing that excites us is Milan is just very, very strong. It's coming in as we expected. Zen 3 we previewed some of that performance on the desktop side, but we see strong translation into TCO benefits and performance benefits for our server products.
So, again we look forward to talking about that more as we go through the quarter. But, yes - overall, I think the data center business continues to be very strategic and performs well for us.
Operator
Our next question today is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America. Your line is now live.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the strong results. I'll actually just focus on the core business. Lisa for my first question, you're raising second half sales growth by nearly - I think about $600 million or so. Could you help us dissect and quantify how much of that is coming from the main areas of PCs and EPYC servers and semi-custom and GPU, I mean this is a significant guide ahead and I'm curious what created this level of surprise.

Lisa Su
Yes. So, Vivek thanks for the question. Our core business is doing very well. I think if you look at some of the components of that - the PC market environment is strong. If you look at all the work from home, schools from home trends, I think that has certainly helped this year. On top of that, our Ryzen 4000 series notebooks are doing very, very well.
So we are seeing strong traction in areas that we hadn't been - that present before like gaming and commercial. So that's one big element. We are ramping our game consoles here in the second half of the year. Those are very highly anticipated launches that are coming up shortly, and demand for that has been quite strong, and our server business has also performed well.
You will see us start with the - you asked about graphics will see gaming graphics here grow sequentially in the fourth quarter as we launch our Radeon 6000 series. So we just have a combination of a lot of product momentum product cycles. I will also say that our supply situation has also improved, as our demand environment has gotten stronger. We've worked closely with our suppliers to ensure that we can satisfy as much of that is possible. And so those are all of the elements for the strong second half.
Vivek Arya
And for my follow-up Lisa. You're now at the 10-ish percent server share mark of the TAM that you have identified. Does the next 10% get easier or more difficult? You mentioned you're launching Milan soon, your competitor is launching their Ice Lake. So from the outside it looks like a lot of hand-to-hand combat every quarter in the server business. How do we think about the journey for your server business from here again as the next 10% become more easier or difficult and why? Thank you.
Lisa Su
Well, I would say it this way Vivek. I think we have made a tremendous amount of progress in the server business. I think the - if you look at the leadership performance and TCO that we have with Rome we've seen broad adoption across cloud, as well as enterpri