Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) Q2 2020 Earnings Conference Call July 28, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ruth Cotter - SVP, Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and IR
Lisa Su - President and CEO
Devinder Kumar - SVP, CFO and Treasurer
Conference Call Participants
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Matt Ramsey - Cowen and Company
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Mitch Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Operator
Hello and welcome to the AMD Second Quarter 2020 Conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ruth Cotter, Senior Vice President, Marketing Human Resources and Investor Relations for AMD. Ms. Cotter, please go ahead.
Ruth Cotter
Thank you and welcome to AMD's Second Quarter 2020 financial results conference call. By now you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings release and slides. If you've not reviewed these documents, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of AMD's website amd.com.
Participants on today's conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Devinder Kumar, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website.
Before we begin today, please note that AMD is scheduled to participate in several Wall Street events during the third quarter. On Tuesday, the 1st of September, Mark Papermaster, Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President, Technology and Engineering, will participate in the Jefferies Virtual Semiconductor IT Hardware & Communications Infrastructure Summit.
On Tuesday, September 15th, Forrest Norrod, Senior Vice President and General Manager Datacenter and Embedded Business Solutions Group will participate virtually in the Deutsche Bank Technology Conference. In addition, our third quarter 2020 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday the 11th of September. Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations speak only as of the current date and as such involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on the risks related to any forward-looking statements that we may make. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial metrics during this call, the non-GAAP financial measures referenced are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in today's press release and slides posted on our website amd.com.
Now with that, I'd like to hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Lisa Su
Thank you, Ruth and good afternoon to all those listening in today.
For the last five years, we have built the technical, operational and financial foundation required to drive our long-term growth strategy. We consistently executed on our product road maps, established deep partnerships with an expanded set of customers, ramped multiple products in leading edge manufacturing technologies and significantly strengthened our balance sheet.
Our strong second quarter results and increased full-year revenue guidance demonstrate how we are successfully scaling our business through our consistent execution. Looking at the second quarter, revenue grew 26% year-over-year to $1.93 billion, driven by strong demand for our leadership server and client processors.

We accelerated our server and mobile processor businesses significantly in the quarter, resulting in Ryzen and EPYC processor revenue more than doubling year-over-year. Importantly, we met our double-digit server processor market share goal, as data center products accounted for more than 20% of our second quarter revenue.
Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment, second quarter revenue increased 45% year-over-year to $1.37 billion as growth in Ryzen processor sales more than offset lower graphics sales.
We delivered our highest client processor revenue in more than 12 years. Increased working and schooling from home due to COVID-19 resulted in a strong PC market in the quarter, although, we believe our growth was largely driven by our 11th straight quarter of market share gains.
Desktop processor sales decreased sequentially as anticipated, while revenue in ASP increased year-over-year, as demand for our higher-end Ryzen processors drove a richer mix. In mobile, we had record quarterly notebook processor unit shipments and revenue.
Sales of our latest Ryzen 4000 series processors grew significantly in the quarter, resulting in mobile revenue growing by a strong double-digit percentage sequentially and more than doubling from a year ago as both unit shipments and ASP increased significantly.
Multiple third party reviewers have consistently highlighted that our latest notebook processors deliver superior performance and longer battery life, compared to the competition. As a result of this strong performance, I'm pleased to report that Ryzen 4000 processor revenue has ramped faster than any mobile processor in our history.
There are now 54 Ryzen 4000 powered notebooks in the market. We expect to continue accelerating our mobile processor business in the second half of the year as HP and Lenovo ramp their first commercial notebooks powered by Ryzen PRO-4000 Series processors and the second wave of more than 30 ultrathin, premium and gaming consumer notebooks launch from multiple OEMs.
In Graphics, second quarter revenue declined year-over-year, as a strong double-digit increase in mobile GPU sales was more than offset by lower desktop channel sales. While desktop GPU shipments were lower year-over-year, channel sellout accelerated in the quarter. Mobile GPU revenue growth was driven by adoption of our RDNA GPUs, highlighted by the launches of new Apple professional and Dell gaming notebooks, featuring our Radeon 5000M series mobile GPUs.
Data center GPU revenue decreased year-over-year. We expect revenue to increase in the second half of the year, as additional cloud-based visual computing wins ramp and we launch our new CDNA data center GPU architecture optimized for next-generation exascale and machine learning workloads.
Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, revenue of $565 million decreased 4% year-over-year due to lower semi-custom sales. Sequentially, revenue increased 62%, driven by record quarterly server processor sales and increased semi-custom product revenue.
In semi-custom, we passed an important milestone in the second quarter as we began initial production and shipments of our next generation game console S0Cs. We expect strong second half semi-custom growth as we ramp production to support the holiday launches of the new PlayStation 5 and Xbox series X consoles.
Turning to server, our focus since launching our EPYC processors has been on building a solid foundation to drive long-term growth. Our strategy is grounded in driving broad, high volume adoption with widespread support from industry-leading cloud and hardware providers.
We passed a significant milestone in the quarter, as we achieved our double-digit server processor unit share goal, based on broad adoption across cloud, enterprise and HPC customers.

In cloud, multiple hyperscale customers ramped second generation EPYC processors into high-volume production in the quarter to power both their internal infrastructure and publicly-available instances. Microsoft announced they have added EPYC processors to power their Office Online applications used by more than 200 million monthly users.
Tencent ramped up multiple millions of EPYC processor-powered virtual machines to support enhanced collaboration services. Google announced that EPYC processors were being used exclusively to power their unique Confidential Computing VMs that encrypt data while it is being processed. And AWS launched global availability of new compute-optimized EPYC-based EC2 instances. In enterprise, we have significantly expanded our TAM as the number of AMD platforms has increased by more than 40% so far this year.
Recent additions include Dell and HPE introducing multiple hyperconverged infrastructure solutions, Lenovo launching dual socket servers for financial, retail and manufacturing markets and Nvidia selecting AMD EPYC processors to power its latest DGX AI platform.
We also secured new HPC wins based on the leadership performance and scalability of second Gen EPYC processors. Public highlights include new wins with leading research institutions including Indiana University, Purdue and CERN, as well as Amazon, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle all announcing cloud-based HPC offerings powered by EPYC processors.
We are pleased with the momentum in our server business and expect to continue gaining share as additional 2ndGen EPYC platforms and cloud deployments ramp to volume in the second half of the year. We remain on track to begin shipping our next-generation “Milan” server processor featuring “Zen 3” late this year.
In closing, I want to thank our employees and partners for the strong execution during this unprecedented time as we continue to focus on delivering on our commitments. While there continues to be some macroeconomic uncertainty and pockets of demand softness, our product portfolio is very strong and our markets are resilient. We are on track to deliver strong growth in the second half of the year, driven by our current product portfolio and initial shipments of our next-generation “Zen 3” CPUs and RDNA 2 GPUs that are on-track to launch in late 2020. 
I am very proud of the progress we have made over the last few years, placing AMD on a long-term growth trajectory. I am even more excited about the opportunities in front of us as we enter our next phase of growth driven by accelerating our business in multiple markets. We remain focused on consistently gaining share across the $79 billion market for our high-performance products. We are investing significantly and have added resources to further extend our leadership IP and go-to-market capabilities, as we pursue our ambitious goal to make AMD a best-in-class growth franchise.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our second quarter financial performance. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar
Thank you, Lisa and good afternoon everyone.
We executed the second quarter very well. Amidst the COVID-19 backdrop, we delivered strong financial results, introduced industry leading products and gained CPU market share. The second quarter results and increased full-year revenue guidance highlight our ability to consistently deliver on our commitments as we continue to drive long-term financial growth.
Second quarter revenue was $1.93 billion, up 26% from a year ago and 8% from the prior quarter. Year-over-year growth was driven by strong Ryzen and EPYC processor sales. Gross margin was 44%, up 330 basis points from a year ago, driven by client and server processor sales. Operating expenses were $617 million, compared to $512 million a year ago, primarily due to ongoing investments in the business.

Operating income more than doubled year-over-year to $233 million, up $122 million from a year ago, driven primarily by revenue growth. Operating margin increased to 12% as compared to 7% a year ago. Net income was $216 million, up $124 million from a year ago and diluted earnings per share were $0.18 per share compared to $0.08 per share a year ago.
Now turning to the business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $1.37 billion, up 45% year-over-year, driven by significant growth in Ryzen processor sales. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $200 million or 15% of revenue, compared to $22 million or 2% of revenue a year ago.
Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment revenue was $565 million, down 4% year-over-year due to lower semi-custom sales, which were largely offset by higher EPYC processor sales. EESC segment operating income was $33 million, or 6% of revenue compared to operating income of $89 million a year ago.
Turning to the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.8 billion, including $200 million from our revolving line of credit, which was fully repaid in the third quarter. Inventory was $1.3 billion, up 25% from the prior quarter in anticipation of the revenue ramp in the second half of 2020 and new product launches.
Free cash flow was $152 million in the second quarter. I am very pleased with our cash performance in the quarter, which resulted in the first half of the year being free cash flow positive. 
Let me now turn to the outlook for the third quarter of 2020. Today's outlook is based on current expectations and contemplates the current COVID-19 environment global economic backdrop and customer demand signals.
We expect revenue to be approximately $2.55 billion plus or minus $100 million, an increase of approximately 42% year-over-year and approximately 32% sequentially. The year-over-year and sequential increases are expected to be driven by higher Ryzen and EPYC processor sales and next-generation semi-custom products.
In addition, for Q3 2020, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 44%, non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $660 million, non-GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $25 million and the diluted share count in the third quarter is expected to be approximately 1.23 billion shares.
For the full-year 2020, we now expect higher annual revenue growth of approximately 32% driven by the strength of our PC, Gaming and Datacenter products. We continue to expect gross margin of approximately 45% for the full year, up two points from the prior year.
In closing, while there continues to be global economic uncertainty due to COVID-19, we have significant opportunities ahead of us with strong product demand across multiple markets. We are in a good position to accelerate our financial momentum, expand gross margins and generate significant cash.
With that, I'll turn it back to Ruth for the question-and-answer session. Ruth?
Ruth Cotter
Thank you, Devinder and operator please poll the audience for the question-and-answer session.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Mark Lipacis from Jefferies. Your line is now live.
Mark Lipacis
A question for Lisa. You've said in the past that your customers - they don't buy CPUs but they buy roadmaps and I was hoping that you could tell us about your roadmaps particularly in servers going forward, how it compares to your competition and does your - as part of that is your view of the competitive environment change after your biggest competitor last week noted a pushed a 7-nanometer process. Thank you.
Lisa Su
Hi, Mark. Yeah, thanks for the question. So look, we've been very focused over the last couple of years on our road map and our strategy. And for sure when we talk to our customers, it's about ensuring that they understand we have a consistent road map that is pushing the leading edge performance and ensuring that we deliver the performance improvements that we promise.

As you know with these road maps, many of these decisions are made years in advance and so we look at process technology, as well as designing architecture and leading-edge packaging. So we feel good about our road map, we just - we updated our road maps at our Financial Analyst Day in March and we continue to be very focused on executing to our road maps.
Mark Lipacis
And on the - when you talk about the - your focus bodes on your transistor or the process and the architectural lead. Can you give us a sense to what extent the share gains that you're taking right now are driven by one or the other or both in would you expect to maintain a lead in both as you launch Milan and further on to in ' 21 and '22?
Lisa Su
Well, I would say that the road map is dependent on all of those factors. So you have to get the process technology and manufacturing right. We feel good about our road map there and our partnership with TSMC. And you also have to make the right design and architectural decisions and we feel good about our CPU roadmap.
So right now we are on Zen 2 with Rome, we saw a very nice acceleration of our data center business due to some of the key customers that have launched. We are on track or we expect to start shipping Milan here late this year. And then we're also working in development on Zen4 which is slated for 5-nanometer.
Operator
Our next question today is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America. Your line is now live.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the strong growth despite all the headwinds. Lisa, for my first one, when I think back to the last time AMD was really big in the server market was in that 2004 to 2006 timeframe, when market share went from 7% to 26% and kind of that 3-year or so period. How would you contrast the current environment right from whether it's from a competitive perspective or just a customer willingness to adopt your platform. What will it take for your market share to kind of approach those peaks, what are the puts and takes and how different or similar is their experience now?
Lisa Su
Yes, sure, Vivek, thanks for the question. So look, the server market we've said is very strategic for us. We think there is a high demand for - so we're pushing the leading edge performance. When I look at our roadmap right now, I feel very good about our roadmap. I think we have executed well to our roadmap. I think we are differentiated in terms of the performance that we're offering in the server market.
We've always said that the datacenter market is a bit of a journey. And so this is about putting together multiple generations of strong execution. So we're pleased with where we are with Rome and the progress that we've made this year. I would say, we're still in the early innings of what we believe we can do in the server market.
I think Rome is a very, very competitive product. I think as we go into, Milan we see that as also a very competitive product and our goal is to really satisfy a broad swath of the server workloads and we think we have the capabilities of doing that.
Vivek Arya
For my follow-up Lisa, so you raised full year growth outlook to 32% or so, I believe from 25%. Could you give us some more color on what's driving that upside, how much of that is coming from PCs, how much from server, how much from semi-custom and I noticed that you kept the gross margin outlook kind of steady. And I'm wondering how do we think about gross margins going forward how sensitive is that to your success in the server market? Thank you.
Lisa Su
Yes, so we did update full-year guidance. When we look at sort of what's changed over the last 90 days, when we were sort of talking to you in April, we were actually expecting that there might be some COVID-19 related weakness in the second half due to macroeconomic factors or other things like that. What we see now is better visibility into the second half of the year.

And so we had originally assumed that the PC market would be down in the second half and we now expect that PCs that we will grow in the PC - in PC processors for the second half compared to the first half. We also see datacenter growing from the second half to the first half.
And then we have our game console ramp that is a strong ramp here in the second half. So I think it's a number of factors, we do believe that the market is a little bit better than we thought 90 days ago, but we also believe that our product traction is strong and we're seeing that come through with our customer demand. So those are the reasons for the guidance.
Vivek Arya
Anything on gross margins?
Lisa Su
Oh, I'm sorry, yes. On gross margins, I think that depends a lot on mix, that depends on certainly your question was about server. Server is certainly accretive to margin. I think in the PC business, the second half of the year tends to be a bit more consumer-focused and notebook focused. And so that's some of the mix relation there.
And then we said that the consoles are decretive to margin. We expect that consoles will be very strong in the third quarter. And although the fourth quarter will be lower for consoles, it's still going to be a very strong - strong second half of the year. So those are the puts and takes there, but we feel that the mix is about right for the annual guide at 45%.
Operator
Our next question today is coming from Matt Ramsey from Cowen and Company. Your line is now live.
Matt Ramsey
Lisa, I wanted to ask about the PC market and you just gave some comments about maybe some stronger trends and you might have anticipated 90 days ago in the back half, but pretty remarkable for the notebook business to more double than and for the second quarter to be your record client sales. I wonder if you might talk about the momentum particularly in the notebook market of the 4000. And then how are you feeling the pull of the enterprise notebook market and what's the traction like there so far into of the back half? Thank you.
Lisa Su
Sure, Matt. So the PC market was strong for us and the PC business was strong for us in the second quarter and as we look into the second half. What we saw was that desktops were down as expected, but the COVID-19 type phenomena has increased overall the PC market and we see a strong shift from desktop to notebooks. At the same time, I think our notebook portfolio particularly the Ryzen 4000 has done extremely well.
We've seen strong adoption. We have over 50 platforms in market. We watch the sell-through and the consumption of those and I would say it has been very strong even exceeded our expectations for the early ramp. And our view is that the second half will continue to be good for notebooks and PCs overall and that's part of this idea that PCs are now essential.
And so we see strength in consumer, we see strength in gaming notebooks, which we had previously been underrepresented. We have a nice commercial ramp and we do see good pipeline around commercial PCs, as well as the education market is quite strong as well. So you put that together and I think the PC business has performed well for us.
Matt Ramsey
As a follow-up maybe a piece of the business that's been asked about a little less frequently over the last few quarters is your gaming GPU business. And I'm interested if you could just put into context what the expectations are for improvements and new opportunities for big Navi as you launch later this year and maybe size those opportunities from a data center perspective versus what you might expect in the gaming channel. Thanks.
Lisa Su
Yes. So I think the graphics as we mentioned in the prepared remarks was down year-over-year. We saw a nice ramp of mobile as we launched some of the Navi based mobile products. But the desktop channel was lower. This was somewhat as expected from the standpoint of the second quarter is usually a lower quarter for the desktop channel. What we did see is that sell-through was pretty good.

So I think gaming overall is good. We are in the process of a product transition. We are on track to launch RDNA 2 or as you call it big Navi late this year. We're excited about the RDNA 2 architecture. I think it's a full refresh for us from the top of the stack through the rest of the stack. And so I think that will be more of a contributor here as we go into later this year and into next year.
Operator
Your next question today is coming from Harlan Sur from JPMorgan. Your line is now live.
Harlan Sur
Good job on the quarterly execution. Good to see the team hit the double-digit percentage market share targets and a broadening out of the end market penetration with EPYC. Lisa just given your customer and design win pipeline and roll out of “Milan” in the back half of this year, how are you thinking or how should we be thinking about further EPYC share gains over the next 12 to 18 months?
Lisa Su
Sure, Harlan. So, look, we are optimistic about our product positioning in the server market, much of what we've been doing up through now frankly is making sure that our customers were ready to take advantage of Rome and EPYC. And so we saw some nice traction here in the first half of the year, particularly in the second quarter around some top cloud accounts that have started to ramp in good volume.
As we look forward to the second half of the year, there are more platforms coming with Rome. We have a number of OEM platforms that are in the process of being launched and we have additional cloud platforms as well. So I think Rome is going to continue to be a strong driver of our growth into the second half of this year, as well as next year.
We're excited about Milan. Milan is looking good in the labs. We're working with our customers on Milan and we expect to start shipping that later this year. So I think the way to think about our server business is again it's a journey and we're pleased with where we are today, but there is a significant opportunity for us if we continue to execute well over the next, I would say, more than 12 to 18 months. But really we see this as a multiyear opportunity.
Harlan Sur
Absolutely. And then as a follow-up, we do an annual CIO survey here at J.P. Morgan. For the past three years, we've been asking Global CIOs, are thinking about or planning to use EPYC based platforms for on-prem. And then the most recent survey that we did in June, we actually saw a 60% year-over-year increase in the number of CIOs that are thinking about using EPYC for on-prem our interpretation is that interest level and mind share is growing quite rapidly. I guess my question to you Lisa is the AMD - what is the AMD team seeing from an actual adoption perspective and what's your sense of your enterprise mix sort of two to three years from now?
Lisa Su
Yes, actually Harlan I saw that data and I thought it was good data. So the - what I would say is that we are making progress in the Enterprise business and that comes from a number of different factors. But first is the availability of platforms and we have a very diverse set of platforms from our OEM partners that are now in market. We've also done quite a bit on the ecosystem and ensuring that we have the partnerships with the ISVs. And then just basically feet on the street where we're talking directly to some of these enterprise customers.
So, I feel good about the progress that we've made. Again, I would refer to the fact that mindshare is a leading indicator, but there is a lot for us to do to convert that into market share and revenue growth, but we feel like we're on a good path and we're going to continue to focus on both cloud and enterprise growth. And I'll also mention HPC is another key vector for us where we're very focused on showing a strong value proposition for those sort of toughest, more scientific workloads.

Operator
Our next question today is coming from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now live.
Joe Moore
As a segue from the previous question, can you talk a little bit about your enterprise prospects on PC client side. Can you give us a sense for how much at this point your business is skewed to consumer and how much progress you're making there in terms of penetrating enterprise business?
Lisa Su
Sure Joe, no question. Our business is more consumer-weighted today. I will say, we're growing nicely in commercial PCs. I think the strength of the Ryzen 4000 product has been good for us. I think there is a lot of positivity around the performance, the battery life, the capabilities there. We continue to expand our go-to-market efforts there, we're partnering very well with our top OEM partners. So I would say that we're still under-represented in commercial, but no question that commercial notebook is a big focus for us and we're going to continue to invest and hopefully make progress in that sub-segment.
Joe Moore
Great. And then as a follow-up, ther