Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call July 27, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Laura Graves - Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations 
Dr. Lisa Su - President and Chief Executive Officer
Devinder Kumar - Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Conference Call Participants
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Aaron Raikers - Wells Fargo
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities
Matt Ramsey - Cowen and Company
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Operator
Hello, and welcome to the AMD Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to Laura Graves, Corporate Vice President of Investor Relations. Laura, please go ahead.
Laura Graves
Thank you, and welcome to AMD’s second quarter 2021 financial results conference call. By now, we hope you have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings press release and slide. If you’ve not reviewed these documents yet, they can be found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com.
Participants on today’s conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Devinder Kumar, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast on our website.
Before we begin, I would like to note that Saeid Moshkelani, Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Client Business; Ruth Cotter, Senior Vice President of Worldwide Marketing, Human Resources and Investor Relations and Strategy will attend the Jefferies Semiconductor and Hardware Summit on Tuesday, August 31. Devinder Kumar will attend the Deutsche Bank Technology Conference on Friday, September 19 and our third quarter 2021 quiet time is expected to begin at the close of business on Friday, September 10.
Today’s discussion contains forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of today, and as such involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. We refer to the cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause actual results to differ. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call. The full non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today’s press release and slides posted on our website.
With that, I will hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Dr. Lisa Su
Thank you, Laura, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. Our business performed exceptionally well in the second quarter. A strong execution in growing customer preference for our high performance product generated significant market and financial momentum. We saw a very strong demand across all of our businesses, which resulted in second quarter revenue growing 99% year-over-year to 3.85 billion. 
We expanded our gross margins by 4 percentage points, doubled operating margin, and more than tripled profitability year-over-year. We also delivered record revenue for the fourth straight quarter and generated record free cash flow in the quarter.
Turning to our computing and graphics segment, second quarter revenue increased 65% year-over-year to 2.25 billion driven by significant growth in both Ryzen and Radeon processor sale. In client computing, we had another record quarter of processor revenue. Both desktop and notebook revenue increased by a strong double-digit percentage year-over-year, and we believe we gained revenue share for the fifth straight quarter.
In desktop, robust demand for our highest-end Ryzen processors drove a richer mix in the quarter as Ryzen 9 processor unit shipments more than doubled year-over-year. In notebooks, unit shipments and ASP increased sequentially and year-over-year. We delivered our seventh straight quarter of record mobile CPU revenue led by the steep ramp of our latest generation Ryzen 5000 Mobile Processors.
In the enterprise, Ryzen pro mobile processor unit shipments nearly doubled year-over-year as we won multiple high volume deployments in the quarter with Fortune 500 financial services, automotive, and pharmaceutical companies. In graphics, revenue doubled year-over-year led by demand for Radeon 6000 series, desktop, graphics cards in the channel, an adoption of our data center GPUs.
RDNA 2 GPU shipments grew by a double-digit percentage sequentially as the first notebooks powered by our Radeon RX 6000 M series GPUs launched, including the first AMD advantage notebooks that combine high performance Ryzen CPUs, Radeon GPUs, and AMD software with premium design features to deliver best-in-class gaming experiences. Asus, HP, MSI, and Lenovo announced plans to bring AMD advantage notebooks to market over the coming months as we further expand our presence in the gaming notebook market.
Data center graphics revenue more than doubled year-over-year driven by new deployment of our AMD instinct accelerators, including initial shipments of our next generation data center GPUs featuring our CDNA 2 architecture. CDNA 2 represents a major step forward in our multi-year data center GPU strategy, delivering more than twice the performance of our current generation and significantly higher performance than competitive offerings in HPC workloads.
We expect data center GPU revenue to grow in the second half of the year as we ramp production of our next generation AMD instinct accelerators, an open sourced ROCm software to support multiple leading edge supercomputer wins, including Frontier, LUMI, [and Pozzi].
Turning to our Enterprise and Embedded and Semi-custom segment, revenue increased 183% year-over-year to 1.6 billion, driven by strong growth in both semi custom and epic processor sales. Semi-custom revenue grew sequentially and year-over-year and we expect game console demand to remain strong throughout the year. We announced a new Semi-custom win earlier this month as valve chose AMD to power their steam deck handheld game console planned to launch this December.
In embedded, we're making good progress expanding our presence across key verticals, including automotive, networking, and storage. We ramped production shipments in the quarter of AMD Ryzen embedded CPUs and Radian RDNA 2 GPUs to power the in-dash infotainment systems in Tesla's latest Model S and Model X vehicles.
Now, turning to server, we delivered our fifth straight quarter of record server processor revenue. Sales grew by a significant double-digit percentage sequentially driven by higher unit shipments and ASP. We are seeing very strong demand across our full server portfolio with second gen EPYC processor revenue growing sequentially, and third gen EPYC processor sales more than doubling quarter-over-quarter.
Third gen EPYC processor revenue is ramping faster than the prior generation as customers and multiple third-party reviewers recognize the absolute performance and price performance leadership of our latest server processors. Cloud demand further accelerated in the quarter, led by growing internal workload adoption and nearly 50 new AMD powered instances by AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google, Tencent, and Alibaba.
Google announced it chose AMD EPYC processors to exclusively power the first offering in its new Tau VM family that delivers industry leading performance and value for scale out workloads versus other competitive x86 and ARM offerings. In enterprise, we see demand accelerating as more than 100 third gen EPYC processor platforms are now in production from Dell, HPE, Lenovo, Supermicro, Cisco, and others.
In addition, we are seeing a rapid expansion in the number of AMD powered solutions and appliances from our OEM and ecosystem partners targeting hyper converged and virtual desktop infrastructures, as well as workloads demanding the highest per core performance, such as EDA and computational fluid dynamics.
We secured multiple HPC wins in the quarter, including newly announced deployments by the National Supercomputing Center in Singapore and the French Atomic Energy Commission. Our substantial momentum in HPC was highlighted by the fact that the number of AMD based systems on the latest Top 500 list of the world's fastest supercomputers increased by almost 5x in the last year, and that EPYC processors power half of the 58 newly listed systems.
Looking at our overall data center business, revenue nearly doubled year-over-year and increased sequentially from a high-teens percentage of overall revenue in the first quarter to greater than 20% in the second quarter. We expect data center revenue to continue growing faster than overall revenue based on the strength of our EPYC processors and instinct accelerators, and the significantly expanded engagements we have built with the leading OEMs and largest MDCs.
Turning towards Xilinx acquisition, we passed additional milestones in the quarter and received unconditional regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions, including in the EU and the United Kingdom. We remain on track to close this strategic transaction by the end of the year and are excited about the opportunities ahead.
In closing, I'm extremely pleased with our execution as our business accelerated considerably in the first half of the year. Based on growing customer preference for our products and strong supply chain execution, we now expect annual revenue to grow by approximately 60% year-over-year, up from approximately 37% growth we guided at the beginning of the year.
Our engineering teams are aggressively driving our product and technology roadmaps to continue setting the pace of innovation for high performance computing. We remain on track to launch next generation products in 2022, including our Zen 4 processors built with industry leading 5 nanometer process technology and our RDNA 3 GPUs.
We also recently demonstrated the next major advance in our triplet strategy with our differentiated 3D dissecting technology that enables significantly denser and more efficient connections between stack chips. Based on the strength of our long-term roadmap and the deep partnerships we have established, we expect to continue growing significantly faster than the market.
In summary, we're making great progress towards our ambitious goal of establishing AMD as a high performance computing leader and the best-in-class growth franchise.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our second quarter financial performance. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar
Thank you, Lisa and good afternoon everyone. AMD has another outstanding quarter. Our high performance computing product momentum is driving record revenue growth, record profitability, and significant cash generation. Second quarter revenue was 3.85 billion, up 99% from a year ago, and up 12% from the prior quarter. Year-over-year growth was driven by significant revenue increases across all businesses.
Gross margin was 48%, up 360 basis points from a year ago, driven by an improved revenue mix and higher margin contribution from all businesses. Operating expenses were 909 million compared to 617 million a year ago as we continue to invest in business growth and our long-term product roadmaps. Operating income was 924 million, up 691 million from a year ago, driven primarily by revenue growth.
Operating margin doubled to 24%, up from 12% a year ago. Net income more than tripled to 778 million, up 562 million from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share was $0.63 per share, compared to $0.18 per share a year ago. This includes a 15% effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2021, compared to 3% a year ago.
Now, turning to the business segment results, Computing and Graphics segment revenue was 2.3 billion, up 65% year-over-year, driven primarily by significantly higher client and graphic processor revenue with a richer product mix in both businesses. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was 526 million or 23% of revenue, compared to 200 million or 15% a year ago.
Enterprise Embedded and Semi-custom segment revenue was 1.6 billion, up 183% from 565 million the prior year. The strong revenue increase was driven by higher Semi-custom product revenue and EPYC processor sales. EESC segment operating income was 398 million or 25% of revenue, compared to 33 million or 6% a year ago.
Turning to the balance sheet, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were 3.8 billion, up from 3.1 billion at the end of the prior quarter. Free cash flow was a record 888 million, compared to 152 million in the same quarter last year. Free cash flow for the first half of 2021 of 1.7 billion was more than double 2020 annual free cash flow.
With our strong financial results and growing cash generation, we announced the $4 billion stock repurchase program in May, under which we repurchased 3.2 million shares of common stock for 256 million in the second quarter. Inventory was 1.8 billion, up from the prior quarter in support of higher revenue expected in the second half of the year.
Let me now turn to the third quarter outlook. Today's outlook is based on current expectations and contemplates the current global supply environment and customer demand signals. We expect revenue to be approximately 4.1 billion plus or minus 100 million, an increase of approximately 46% year-over-year, and approximately 6% sequentially. The year-over-year increase is expected to be driven by growth across all businesses. The sequential increase is expected to be primarily driven by growth in our data center and gaming businesses.
In addition, for Q3 2021, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 48%. Non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 1 billion, non-GAAP interest expense taxes and other to be approximately 150 million, and the diluted share count to be approximately 1.23 billion shares.
For the full-year 2021, we now expect revenue growth of approximately 60% over 2020, up from our prior guidance of approximately 50% driven by growth across all businesses. We also expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 48%, up from prior guidance of approximately 47%.
Non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 25% of revenue, down from previous guidance of approximately 26% of revenue. Non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 15% and we expect the company's cash tax rate to be approximately 2%.
In closing, we delivered another excellent quarter with very strong year-over-year growth, accelerated our business momentum, and delivered exceptional financial returns.
With that, I'll turn it back to Laura for the question-and-answer session. Laura?
Laura Graves
Thank you, Devinder. Operator, we're ready to begin the Q&A session now.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now live.
Toshiya Hari
Good afternoon. Thank you so much for taking my questions and congratulations on a very strong set of results. Lisa, you didn't really touch on the supply situation in the marketplace today that appears to be a pretty big focus for companies and also for investors. How would you characterize the current gap between supply and demand? And importantly, you know, as we look ahead to 2022, how comfortable are you from a foundry wafer capacity and [ABS sub-straight capacity] perspective, as you continue to grow the business strong double-digits? And then I've got a quick follow-up.
Dr. Lisa Su
Sure. Well, hey, thanks for the question. You know, I think it's fair to say that the semiconductor demand environment, and particularly the AMD demand environment has been very strong in 2021. You know, we've been working on supply for the past couple of quarters, I think I'm actually quite pleased with the progress that we've made in terms of increasing our supply. 
You know, what I've said previously is, you know, certainly, you know, we do see, you know, some level of constraints, but we are making progress each quarter. And we made progress in the second quarter that enabled us to exceed the original guidance. And as we go into the second half of the year, you know, we're continuing to bring on extra supply each quarter, which is leading to, you know, the full-year of guidance raise that we have. 
So, I think overall, you know, we continue to make progress. I will say that, you know, it's tight, like you've heard from many other companies, you know, through the end of this year, I think it improves in 2022. We've been planning for significant growth, you know, our model is one where we're going to drive significant growth. 
So, we've been planning with that with our supply chain partners. And, you know, we do have confidence that we can continue to grow substantially as we go into the second half of this year and into 2022 with the supply chain.
Toshiya Hari
Great. And then as a quick follow up, I guess a multi-part question on your server, CPU business or data center business more broadly. I was hoping you could speak to, sort of the revenue construct in the second quarter. And if you can differentiate between second gen and third gen, Rome versus Milan, and then what you're seeing on the Cloud side versus Enterprise side of your business, and the outlook into the second half as you think about, sort of the different segments of that business? And then finally, you talked about data center being more than 20% of revenue, in Q2, what's embedded in your second half guidance? Thank you.
Dr. Lisa Su
Sure. Okay. Quite a few questions there. So, let me try to work through them. So, in terms of the makeup of our data center business, I mean, our, you know, our server business was very strong. I think the product capability, and, you know, sort of just, you know, sort of the performance and the total cost of ownership for Milan has proven out very well with our customers. So, we're very happy with that launch.
In the second quarter, we did see significant growth with Milan, that being the case, so Rome was still a larger portion of the revenue. And I would say, in the second quarter, it was more cloud weighted. So, we saw, you know, cloud tends to ramp faster on new generation, and that was the case in the second quarter. 
So, you know, cloud grew faster than enterprise. You know, as we go into the second half of the year, we expect that Milan will ramp very quickly and, you know, crossover, you know, third gen will crossover second generation in the third quarter, and what we're seeing actually is, you know, continued strength across cloud and HPC, which have been traditionally strong for AMD, but we're actually seeing very good momentum in enterprise. And I think, you know, with the breadth of the platforms that we have out there, and, you know, just the coverage, and then, you know, sort of the per core performance, as well as the overall socket level performance. 
We're getting a very strong traction and, and we're pleased to see that. So, I think as we go into the second half of the year, I think enterprise will be a stronger component for us than it was in the first half of the year. And that's, you know, the balance that we want, but, you know, overall, we're pleased with that. And then in terms of your question about, you know, server was, I’m sorry, data center was greater than 20% of our revenue in the second quarter. We believe that the data center business will continue to be a strong driver for us into the second half of the year. And so it'll be a larger percentage of our overall revenue in the second half of the year.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from Aaron Raikers from Wells Fargo. Your line is now live.
Aaron Raikers
Yeah, thanks. Thanks for taking the question. Congratulations, as well, on the quarter. I wanted to ask about, kind of the trajectory of gross margin, if we take the full-year guidance now guiding up 100 basis points, with the 3Q guide into consideration, it looks like you're actually pushing towards a 50% gross margin, you know, how do we think – maybe you can unpack, you know, how we should think about the segment gross margin levels? And, you know, do you think that that if we're hitting 50%, that's a new, you know, threshold that we can consider modeling going forward?
Devinder Kumar
You know, I think on the gross margin, first of all, I'd say we are very pleased with the progress we have made. And as you observe, we have taken up the guidance for the year from 47 to 48. And in our long-term target model, we have plans to get to greater than 50%. And I think the descent of the businesses that Lisa just talked about, especially in the data center, help us get there. 
You know, the product mix is important, the ramp in the data center and the client PC business, as we gain revenue share is going to be important to drive that. And we are confident that we can continue to improve the gross margin, given the mix of the business and also the revenue ramp in the businesses that are higher than corporate average gross margin. So feel very good about getting to the greater than 50% over time.
Dr. Lisa Su
Yeah, and maybe…
Aaron Raikers
Maybe this was a… I'm sorry.
Dr. Lisa Su
Oh Aaron, I was just going to add to that. I think the most important thing, you know to think about as you think about our business going forward is, it really is about the mix of business. So, as data center becomes a higher percentage of our business, you know, that's a favorable mix for us. And then within the segments, as well as, you know, as we look at, you know, where we're strategically focusing, as we, you know, really mix to the higher end of the portfolio, you know, those are the key things that we're looking at from a margin standpoint, but there are always puts and takes, you know, in the business, it's just really about the mix.
Aaron Raikers
Yeah. And then just as a real quick follow-up, you know, as Milan ramps and appreciating that, you know, Rome is, sounds like still the majority of the EPYC line-up, how successful have you been, as far as leveraging a stronger position, you know, with regard to uplift on blended ASPs as we think about the continuation of Milan, and even starting to think about Genoa going forward? Thank you.
Dr. Lisa Su
Yeah. So, as we, you know, as we think about, you know, sort of the trajectory of the business, it is about offering, you know, more performance per socket, and that is what we're doing. So, I think, you know, Milan is certainly a performance uplift relative to Rome. It does lend itself to a higher ASP or higher mix of the business. And then clearly, as you know, we go to general, you know, we're going to continue that trajectory.
So, I think, and then, you know, within server there's also a mix between Cloud and Enterprise. As I said earlier, we're quite Cloud-waited here in the first half of the year. And as we as we go to a stronger percentage of enterprise, you know, that would also be a favorable mix in the server side of the business.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Securities. Your line is now live.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, it's to continue on the server business, until last year, you know, we saw AMD take about 2 to 3 points of server share annually, this year the share gains seem to be accelerating on the order of 4 to 5 points. I'm curious what's driving this acceleration? And did you see anything from Intel's roadmap disclosures yesterday that you think can impact your server share gain momentum?
Dr. Lisa Su
Yeah, Vivek. Thanks for the question. Well, you know, as you know, very well, we're very focused on, you know, sort of multi-quarter, multi-year progress in the server in the data center business, you know, I think we're excited with the momentum around our server business. I think, you know, the product roadmap is very strong, I think the execution has been very strong. I think customers also, with the third generation in Milan, you know, felt much more comfortable to go more broadly, with Milan, just because this was, you know, sort of the third time, right. 
They had – many of our customers were on Rome already, but with, you know, with Milan, it was, you know, sort of socket compatible. And so there was, you know, it was a faster time to ramp and we're seeing it ramp faster. So, we feel good about where we're positioned. I mean, it's a very competitive market out there Vivek. I’ll always say that. We expect our competition to be really good and we need to be better than that. And so, you know, our team is very focused on execution. And we're excited about Genoa. I think our customers are excited about Genoa. And so, you know, we need to, you know, keep the momentum and keep the roadmap execution as strong as it has been.
Vivek Arya
Got it. And for my follow-up, you announced a $4 billion share buyback, I believe, you know, kind of midway or late-midway, through Q2, you only did about 256 million of that. How should we think about buybacks going forward? You know, are you, you know, do you have a certain timeframe in mind? What's going to guide your decision when and how much of buybacks to do? Thank you.
Devinder Kumar
Yeah, I think no specific Vivek, as you know, these programs have been really opportunistic, and we will obviously return, you know, capital to the shareholder as the balance sheet continue to improve. However, we are pleased to initiate the program in Q2 with about 256 million, repurchased 3.2 million. And you will see as to more over time, but I wouldn't want to get into any specifics on this call.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is coming from Matt Ramsey from Cowen and Company. Your line is now live.
Matt Ramsey
Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. I guess Lisa, one of the things I was really pleased to see and this set of results and investors have asked me about quite a bit is that you're delivering the revenue upside, but the operating margin, leverage is coming with that. You guys have rightly been spending a ton to grow the business and that's been reflected in the growth. And I just wonder how you're thinking about the balance of revenue growth versus delivering; sort of upside to operating margins going forward because it's an item that's been a fulcrum from some investors in my conversation? Thanks.
Dr. Lisa Su
Sure, Matt, maybe I'll start and then see if Devinder has anything to add. You know, I think we've always been very thoughtful about, you know how we, you know, both invest in the business as well as delivering, you know, operating leverage, and look, I think our revenue growth has been very strong, you know, it was certainly above what we had previously forecasted.
We are taking the opportunity to vent – to invest in the business. And, you know, that's investing in R&D and investing in sales and marketing, and really, you know, the overall capabilities there, but you do see the operating leverage in the business. And I think we intend to continue to deliver, you know, improved operating margins, you know, as we go forward.
So, I think we can do it, do all of those things. I think we can continue to grow revenue significantly above the industry. We will continue to invest in OpEx at a lower rate than the revenue growth, and we will continue to deliver, you know, operating margin improvement over time.
Devinder Kumar
Yeah, I think you covered it Lisa. I think that's well said. I mean, as you saw, we did update the guidance for OpEx as a percent of revenue from, you know, about 26% or 25% for the year, and we continue to discipline from a viewpoint of the investments we need to make to grow the business, as well as obviously, invest in R&D go to market. Hiring people is another area of focus right now as the business is growing pretty significantly.
Matt Ramsey
Thank you both for that. As my follow-up, it’s interesting, the more strength the PC market shows, it's almost like the more concern investors have that eventually we revert back towards the mean. And Lisa, your competitor gave some fairly bullish commentary about the state of the PC industry going forward. And I wonder if you might share your view? And we've heard in our work a few bubbles in the Chromebook market, and maybe a couple of PC OEMs saying they're building a tiny bit of CPU inventory. So, on the back of that commentary about the market, if you have any views on your own visibility, and inventory of AMD parts, or maybe the gap between orders and your ability to fulfill them in the PC market, those things would be really helpful. Thank you.
Dr. Lisa Su
Yeah, sure, Matt. So, look, there are lots of different signals in the PC market. So, you know, maybe I will make a few comments. I think it's fair to say that, you know, the end user demand has been very strong. So you know, very strong in the first half of the year, very strong in the second half of last year. And, you know, that's from all this, you know, work from home, school from home, you know, sort of, and then some of this return to office trends. You know, within that, you know, there is a little bit of a mix shift as you go through time. You know, when I look at the market, I would say that we performed very well. 
You know, within this market backdrop, you know, we continue to gain revenue share. And what that means is, you know, we're focusing on the most strategic segments of the PC market. You know, as we go forward, you know, I do agree that end user demand is strong. I also believe that, you know, if you look at the second half of this year for the PC market, you know, you'll hear about, you know, sort of pockets of component shortages or match sets, and things like that. So, we're taking tha