Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG) Q1 2020 Earnings Conference Call April 28, 2020  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Jim Friedland - Director of Investor Relations
Sundar Pichai - Chief Executive Officer
Ruth Porat - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Eric Sheridan - UBS
Doug Anmuth - JPMorgan
Heather Bellini - Goldman Sachs
Michael Nathanson - MoffettNathanson
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley
Brent Thill - Jefferies
Dan Salmon - BMO Capital Markets
Justin Post - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Kevin Rippey - Evercore ISI
Mark Mahaney - RBC Capital Markets
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Alphabet First Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Jim Friedland
Thank you, Candice. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet’s first quarter 2020 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar Pichai and Ruth Porat.
Now, I’ll quickly go over the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business, operations and financial performance, including the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on those areas, may be considered forward-looking and such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC and in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 expected to be filed with the SEC later today.
During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today’s earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor.
And I’ll now turn over the call to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai
Thank you, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. When I last spoke with you in early February, no one could have imagined how much the world would change and how suddenly. Our thoughts are with everyone who has been impacted by COVID-19, especially those who have lost loved ones or their livelihoods. It’s a challenging moment for the world.
Through it all, we are incredibly grateful for all of the essential workers on the frontline of this crisis. From healthcare workers and first responders, to the grocery store clerks and delivery workers, to teachers grappling with new technology to help children learn remotely, to all the scientists and researchers working hard to develop vaccines and treatments, and many others who are leading through these difficult times. Thank you.
These people fill us with hope and show us the power of human resilience. We’ll need that energy and resolve in the months and years ahead. Today, there is still a great deal of uncertainty regarding the path to recovery. But there are some things that we can understand better with the patterns we are seeing. For example, it’s clear from data that people are being more cautious and are seeking authoritative advice and guidance to protect their family’s health and safety.
A return to normal economic activity depends on how effectively societies manage the spread of the virus. There is no one-size-fits-all, and the timing and pace of recovery will vary from location to location. This is a long-term effort. It’s also clear that this is the first major pandemic taking place in a digital world.
Many parts of the economy are also able to continue with some semblance of normalcy. Thanks to advances in remote work, online shopping, delivery options, home entertainment and telemedicine. At the same time, newer technologies like AI, Bluetooth exposure notifications and 3D printing are being used to help fight the disease head on.

It’s now clear that once the emergency is past, the world will not look the same. Some social norms will change and many businesses are speaking to us, looking to reinvent their operations. We have seen that the most pressing concern of small and large businesses right now is business continuity, solving for issues like employee safety, dramatic falls or surges in demand, supply chains and managing a remote workforce.
Ultimately, we’ll see a long-term acceleration of movement from businesses to digital services, including increased online work, education, medicine, shopping and entertainment. These changes will be significant and lasting.
Given the depth of challenges so many are facing, it’s been a huge privilege to be able to help people and businesses at this moment. In today’s call, I’ll cover 4 areas. First, I’ll mention some of the ways we have marshaled our resources and product development to help. Second, I’ll talk about how people are using our products at this unprecedented moment. Third, I’ll talk about our business, especially our advertising business, which was significantly impacted in the last few weeks of the quarter. And I’ll close with our investment plans and focus for the rest of the year.
In the early days of the crisis, we were able to put in motion a number of efforts quickly. This is a testament to strategic areas where we have invested over recent years, products that people trust, our technical leadership and innovation, deep partnerships, a highly skilled workforce, and the scale and resilience of our operations.
I’ve been proud of all these efforts and what they say about our company. I’ll give just a few examples. First, we’ve been working with healthcare providers, researchers, authorities and communities to help combat the virus. Our Community Mobility Reports help authorities see in aggregate how social distancing requirements are working.
Verily has tested thousands of people in California and has partnered with Rite Aid to bring free testing to 8 additional states. Good Cloud is forming deep partnerships, such as with leading healthcare provider, HCA Healthcare to understand data around ICU bed availability, ventilator supplies and test results.
And you may have read about our exposure notification partnership with Apple, designed specifically and carefully to protect users’ privacy, while helping public health authorities and governments manage countries reopening. Second, we are working hard to provide accurate and authoritative information to people using our services.
In Search, we have launched a number of features, such as up-to-date answers from health authorities and remote medical care options. On YouTube we are quickly removing content that violates policy, and raising authoritative content from news organizations and experts.
Up to last week, our COVID-19 info panels have had 20 billion impressions. Third, we are playing a role in supporting businesses and workers that are hurting because of the downturn. In March, we made a commitment, upwards of $800 million to support small businesses and crisis response efforts through a combination of grants, small business loans and ad credits.
And the Google News Initiative is offering financial support to thousands of small, medium and local news publishers through a Journalism Emergency Relief Fund. We have also waived ad serving fees for news publishers globally on Ad Manager for the next 5 months.
Turning to the way people are using our products. People are relying on Google services more than ever. This is a strong recognition of the value of our products, particularly in important and urgent moments. As a few examples, we have seen a significant raise in search activity. To put it into perspective, in the U.S. coronavirus related search activity at its peak was 4 times greater than during the peak of the Super Bowl.

People are spending significantly more time on their Android apps with downloads of apps from Google Play rising 30% from February to March. YouTube watch-time has also significantly increased. One area in particular is live streams. I hope you saw Andrea Bocelli on YouTube live on Easter, which just had over 39 million views and it was truly beautiful.
100 million students and educators are using Google Classroom, double the number from the beginning of March. We have seen a massive increase in demand for Chromebooks. Analysts have reported 400% increase during the week of March 21 year-over-year. And schools and businesses in particular are using our secure video conferencing platform, Meet.
Last week, we surpassed a significant milestone and are now adding roughly 3 million new users each day and have seen a 30-fold increase in usage since January. There are now over 100 million daily Meet meeting participants. Stay tuned for much more.
Turning to our business, let me touch on our performance this quarter. Q1 was in many ways the tale of 2 quarters. For our advertising business, the first 2 months of the quarter were strong. In March, we experienced a significant and sudden slowdown in ad revenues. The timing of the slowdown correlated to the locations and sectors impacted by the virus and related shutdown orders.
As the impact of COVID-19 came into view, we delayed some ad launches and prioritized supporting our customers as many adjusted their strategy. We are focused on products where we can help most advertisers and merchants during the crisis. For example, under our new leader of commerce, Bill Ready, last week, we announced that merchants can list products in Google shopping for free. It’s been widely rolled out in the U.S. with more countries to come and the response has been positive.
Overall, recovery in ad spend will depend on a return to economic activity. There are 2 key aspects of our business that give us confidence about the future. First, as we saw after 2008, one of the strongest features of Search is that it can be adjusted quickly, so it’s relatively easier to turn off and then back on, and marketers see it as highly cost effective and ROI based.
Second, our business is more diversified than it was in 2008. For example, Cloud. In the public sector, we are helping governments delivered critical health and social services. We are supporting the state of New York, new online unemployment application system as it deals with a significant increase in demand.
In retail, we have held Loblaw, one of Canada’s largest food retailers, and Wayfair, scale to support exponential traffic increases. We are helping communication companies adapt to new behavior patterns. Vodafone is using Google Cloud platform to help that analyze network traffic flows to keep everyone connected, and we are helping Unity Technologies keep real time online games stay up and running.
Institutions like Lloyds Bank are digitally transforming their businesses, and we are helping even more businesses do the same to new partnerships with Accenture, AT&T and T-Systems. We now have more than 6 million paying G Suite customers. G Suite is helping Netflix and German manufacturer, Kaeser Compressors, transition quickly to remote work, while Twitter, Shopify, Retailer Schnucks and Italian bank Credem are using Meet for things like all-hands and customer meetings, elsewhere across the business.
YouTube subscriptions continue to grow, the team has launched YouTube Kids in 15 new countries around the world since the beginning of the year and rolled out new features to make kids focused channels safer.
Android previewed Android 11, which includes seamless 5G connectivity and a smarter keyboard with a faster messaging experience. And as I mentioned, we have seen significant growth in play. There are now over 2.5 billion monthly active play devices worldwide. And in hardware, we saw a decline in device activations in the quarter due to falling customer demand globally. But I’m excited about the product roadmap ahead for the year, including yesterday’s launch of Pixel Buds 2.

Finally, moving on to our focus for rest of the year. We are taking a long view and continuing to invest in our long-term priorities, but are being thoughtful in the short-term. So we made the decision to slowdown the pace of hiring in the reminder of 2020, while maintaining momentum in a small number of strategic areas.
We are also recalibrating the focus and pace of our investments in areas like data centers and machines, and non-businesses essential, marketing and travel. We’ll also continue to thoughtfully manage our Other Bets portfolio. Waymo raised $2.25 billion in its first external investment round, a terrific validation of their technology and long-term business model. Wing saw a surge in deliveries and new users, increasing its daily volume fivefold with great momentum in test programs in Australia and Virginia.
At Google, we’ll continue to be focused on the 4 key areas that I outlined in the last earnings call. First, creating the most helpful products for everyone, particularly at a time where people rely on us for information, work, education and entertainment. Second, providing the most trusted experiences for our users. This includes our efforts to tackle misinformation and digital threats as well as our work to safeguard consumer privacy.
Third, executing at scale, I’ve been proud of how we continue to work so cohesively and productively even with the distributor workforce. We’ll continue to build on the internal tools, support systems and infrastructure we have built over the years. And finally, creating sustainable value, we’ll be optimizing the way our data centers work and prioritizing strategic areas of investment where we need to support our users and partners.
Let me express my thanks to our employees for their herculean effort under these difficult circumstances. While the road ahead for everyone is uncertain, we’ll continue to support our users, communities and partners and will all emerge together from this moment. Thank you and please take care, everyone. Over to Ruth.
Ruth Porat
Thanks, Sundar. Our results for the first quarter are a tail of 2 quarters with strong results across our revenue lines for January and February followed by an abrupt decline in March in our advertising revenues, as governments globally instituted stay at home orders in response to COVID-19. At the same time, even through March, our non-advertising revenue lines maintain their strong performance, particularly Google Cloud. I’ll provide more details on the impact of the crisis as I review the Google segment revenue results and conclude with an update to the outlook that I shared on our fourth quarter call. Sundar and I will then your questions.
Starting with consolidated Alphabet results. In the first quarter, our total revenues were $41.2 billion, up 13% year-on-year and up 15% in constant currency, driven by Search, YouTube and Cloud. Details of Alphabet’s consolidated revenues by geographic region are available in our earnings press release. In short, advertising results reflect, in large part, the nature and timing of actions around the globe in response to COVID-19.
The decline in APAC was more muted than what we have seen in the rest of the world given the uneven impact of COVID as well as the composition of our revenues in the region. The impact in the rest of the world began later and was more acute by the end of the quarter. In terms of the foreign exchange impact, exchange rate movements resulted in a modest headwind to reported revenues.
Regarding our key expense lines, on a consolidated basis, total cost of revenues including TAC, was $19 billion, up 19% year-on-year. Other cost of revenues on a consolidated basis was $11.5 billion, up 26% year-over-year primarily driven by Google-related expenses. The biggest factors here again this quarter were costs associated with our data centers and other operations, including depreciation, and then content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube’s advertising supported content followed by content costs for YouTube TV and our paid YouTube music and premium subscription services.

Operating expenses were $14.2 billion with headcount growth being the largest driver of year-on-year growth for R&D and sales and marketing expenses. For G&A, the biggest driver of expense growth was attributable to a reserve for estimated credit deterioration as a result of COVID-19.
Stock-based compensation totaled $3.2 billion. Headcount was up 4,149 from the fourth quarter. Again the majority of new hires were engineers and product managers. In terms of product areas, the most sizable headcount increases were again in Google Cloud for both technical and sales roles. Operating income was $8 billion, down 4% year-over-year, excluding the impact of the EC fine in the first quarter of last year for an operating margin of 19%.
Other income and expense was a loss of $220 million driven primarily by losses in equity securities. We provide more detail on the line items within OI&E in our earnings press release. Our effective tax rate was 11.9%. Net income was $6.8 billion, and earnings per diluted share were $9.87.
Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow. Cash CapEx for the quarter was $6 billion, which I will discuss in the Google segment results. Operating cash flow was $11.5 billion with free cash flow of $5.4 billion. We repurchased $8.5 billion of our shares. We entered the quarter with cash and marketable securities of approximately $117 billion.
Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with our Google segment. Revenues were $41 billion, up 14% year-over-year. I’ll now go through the individual advertising revenue lines. Starting with Google Search and other advertising revenue, we generated $24.5 billion in revenues in the quarter that was up 9% year-over-year. This reflects strong year-on-year growth for the first 2 months of the quarter.
In March, revenues began to decline and entered the month at a mid-teens percentage decline in year-on-year revenues, although, users’ search activity increased, their interest shifted to less commercial topics. In addition, there was also reduced spending by our advertisers.
YouTube advertising revenues were $4 billion, up 33% year-on-year. Significant YouTube revenue growth persisted until late in the first quarter with different performance trajectories for the brand and direct response components. Direct response continued to have substantial year-on-year growth throughout the entire quarter. Brand advertising growth accelerated in the first 2 months of the quarter, but began to experience a headwind in mid-March. As a result by the end of March, total YouTube ads revenue growth had decelerated to a year-on-year growth rate in the high-single-digit.
Network advertising revenues were $5.2 billion, up 4% year-on-year with healthy year-on-year growth for the first 2 months of the quarter. We ended March at a year-on-year percentage decline in network revenues in the low-double-digits.
Turning to Google Cloud, including GCP and G Suite. Revenues were $2.8 billion for the first quarter, up 52% year-over-year, driven by significant growth at GCP and ongoing strong growth at G Suite. Once again, the growth rate of GCP was meaningfully higher than that of cloud overall. GCP growth was led by our infrastructure offerings in our data and analytics platform. We’re pleased with the ongoing growth in G Suite, which continues to reflect growth in both seat count and average revenue per seat.
With respect to the implications of the global crisis for Google Cloud, we’re proud of the accelerated traction we achieved across sectors, including public sector and healthcare for disease monitoring and control, working with leading retailers on demand forecasting working with companies across media and communications to enhance their customer service and across industries on supply chain optimization.

In the first quarter, other revenues were $4.4 billion, up 23% year-over-year, primarily driven by growth in YouTube non-advertising revenues and play. YouTube’s contribution to other revenues benefited from subscriber growth across its various offerings. Within Play, app revenues continue to benefit from strong growth in the number of active buyers in the first quarter. In addition in the latter part of the quarter we started to see an increase in user engagement in apps as well as in digital content.
Total Traffic Acquisition Costs were $7.5 billion or 22% of total advertising revenue and up 9% year-over-year. Total TAC as a percentage of total advertising revenues was down slightly year-over-year, reflecting once again of favorable revenue mix shift from network to Google properties.
Google operating income was $9.3 billion, up 1% versus last year and the operating margin was 23%. Google accrued CapEx for the quarter was $5.7 billion, reflecting investments in data centers followed by servers and office facilities.
Moving on to the performance of Other Bets, for the first quarter, revenues were $135 million, primarily generated by Fiber and Verily. Operating loss was $1.1 billion for the first quarter.
Let me now conclude with our thoughts on the impact of the global crisis on our revenues and investments including an update on the outlook I shared on our fourth quarter earnings call. We remain optimistic about the underlying strength of our business over the long-term.
On a daily basis, our products play an important role for consumers and businesses globally. This has been evident throughout the crisis and the usage metrics that Sundar referenced earlier. We’re humbled that users continue to turn to us as much as they do and a time of global need and uncertainty. We take that responsibility very seriously.
Users clearly are depending on us to provide useful and accurate information. They are looking to YouTube for information, education and entertainment constantly as they study, create and work from home. They are using our G Suite products to collaboratively communicate, connect and work.
Although users may not be focused as much on purely commercial activities right now, over the long term, the value we provide to billions of users globally serves us well. Our previous investments in technical infrastructure ensure that we have the capacity and resilience to meet the increased demand from our users in this extraordinary time.
We are redoubling our efforts to help our advertising customers and partners by sharing insights and developing new tools to keep them connected to their customers and help them be best positioned for recovery. In terms of more specific product points, I will start with Search advertising where our financial results are driven in part by users’ search behavior.
At the inception of the crisis, the increase in user interest was for information about COVID-19 and related non-commercial topics. Although we have seen some very early signs of recovery and commercial search behavior by users, it is not clear how durable or monetizable this behavior will be.
In order to gauge the ongoing potential financial impact to our business from COVID-19, a key signal to monitor is macroeconomic performance which is tended to be correlated with advertising spend. As of today, we anticipate that the second quarter will be a difficult one for our advertising business.
As we move beyond the crisis and the global economy normalizes, this should be reflected in our advertising revenues. But it would be premature to comment on timing, given all the variables here.
In terms of Google Cloud, we remain very pleased with the execution by the team, reflected in the ongoing pace of customer adoption of both GCP industry-specific solutions and G Suite collaboration tools to help businesses operate efficiently and effectively.

Moving on to profitability, while TAC and content acquisition costs are obviously tied to revenues, there is a sizable percentage of items in other cost of revenues that are generally less variable in nature, such as depreciation and operations costs of our technical infrastructure as well as for activities like customer support and content review.
Much of our operating expense is also not directly correlated to changes in revenues. Given that we are faced with a global crisis of uncertain depth and duration, we have been focused on taking steps to enhance efficiency, including slowing the pace of hiring in some categories of marketing spend as well as further enhancing machine utilization.
More specifically, with respect to the pace of hiring, last quarter, I indicated that the rate of headcount growth in 2020 would be slightly higher than the 20% growth in 2019. We now anticipate a deceleration in headcount growth that should start to be visible in the third quarter and continue into the fourth quarter.
Although we are focused on these and other steps to moderate the overall pace of investment, we remain committed to the long-term opportunities for which we are well positioned, so we will continue to invest in these areas, including Search, Machine Learning and Google Cloud.
Finally, with respect to CapEx, on the fourth quarter call, we shared our expectation that investments in both technical infrastructure and office facilities would increase compared to 2019. We now anticipate a modest decrease in the level of total CapEx in 2020 compared with last year.
The biggest change in our outlook is the reduction in global office facility investments, due to both the need to pause most of our ground-up construction and fit-outs in response to COVID-19 and our decision to slow down the pace at which we acquire office buildings. In terms of technical infrastructure, we expect a moderate reduction to our forecast relative to the beginning of the year, given the impact of COVID-19 on data center construction delays, as well as the benefit of our ongoing focus on server efficiency.
Overall, we anticipate technical infrastructure investment to remain at roughly the same level as in 2019 with relatively more spend on servers than on data center construction.
Thank you. And Sundar and I will now take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Eric Sheridan from UBS. Your line is now open.
Eric Sheridan
Thanks for taking the question and hope all is safe and well with everyone on the team there at Alphabet. 2 questions if I can. One, on the comment with respect to direct response advertising on YouTube, would love to get a little more color on how direct response advertising’s ad units continued to evolve and perform, and how advertisers are using those ad units as part of their broader advertising goals.
And then maybe, Ruth, for you, on the comment on expenses, just want to understand a little bit of how much of what your messaging on expenses is efficiency gains that you were aiming for in 2020 before we got to COVID-19 versus elements of the cost structure that you’re reexamining as a result of the pandemic. Thanks so much.
Sundar Pichai
Eric, thanks, thanks for the wishes. On YouTube direct response, we’ve definitely seen traction there. I think an area where it really works well for example is app installs, it’s a great example of it. Gaming is another good example of it. And we are working on iterating and making the format work better, so that it applies to more contexts as well.
But, in general, I think businesses are learning to adapt. Obviously, we’ve had great success with Search and so we’re bringing a lot of those learnings and we’re sharing it with our customers. And so, we expect to see more traction there over time.

Ruth Porat
And on your second question, I like the way you framed it. Yes, we do have efficiency efforts that we started, that we had going as we enter this year. But as a result of what we’re seeing in the environment, our view was that we should really double-down on those. And so, when we go through the various areas that I mentioned, we had started the year with an expectation about really optimizing headcount around the various areas.
What we’ve determined is we’re going to at this point slow the pace of hiring. To be very clear, we are continuing to hire, but we are slowing the pace of hiring. And that’s helping as we’re driving a deeper look into how do you optimize within each area. The same is true for example in some of the comments on marketing.
We are continuing to invest in marketing. As you know well, sales and marketing line, the majority of it is headcount related and we do continue to invest here in ads, and in particular, in Cloud. As it relates to the marketing component, namely ads and promo spend, we did reduce it relative to our plans in the beginning of the year. And we continue to have a healthy budget for ads and promo, particularly in digital to support many business areas.
But as with the other areas of investment, we’re really focused on optimizing across products and services. And with physical events canceled for much of the year, marketing spend is also reduced. And so, that’s another example. With machines and servers, we’ve been focused on efficiency of the fleet for some time now. This is giving us the opportunity to push that even further.
So we’re looking at the operating environment and saying we should continue to lean into the efficiency programs. We can. It does help us free up some resources for the growth areas that continue to be a priority, but it is an accentuation of where we were.
Eric Sheridan
