Alphabet, Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG) Q2 2020 Earnings Conference Call July 30, 2020  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
James Friedland - Director, IR
Sundar Pichai - CEO & Director
Ruth Porat - SVP & CFO
Conference Call Participants
Eric Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank
Douglas Anmuth - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Heather Bellini - Goldman Sachs Group
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley
Brent Thill - Jefferies
Justin Post - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Kevin Rippey - Evercore ISI
Ross Sandler - Barclays Bank
Colin Sebastian - Robert W. Baird & Co.
Mark Mahaney - RBC Capital Markets
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Alphabet Second Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
James Friedland
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's second quarter 2020 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar Pichai and Ruth Porat. Now I'll quickly cover the safe harbor. 
Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business, operations and financial performance, including the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on those areas, may be considered forward-looking. And such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC and in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 expected to be filed with the SEC later today. 
During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor. And now I'll turn the call over to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai
Thank you, Jim, and thank you, everyone, for joining in. It's certainly been a busy week, and I'm glad to be here. I hope everyone is staying safe and well. All of us at Google continue to send our deepest gratitude to everyone on the front lines of the pandemic all around the world. I also want to personally thank all our employees who continue to work so hard to make sure our products and services are available for everyone right now. People looking for important health information, hard-hit businesses working to inform customers about opening hours or delivery options or teachers connecting to their students. The macroeconomic environment caused by the pandemic created headwinds for our business. Our revenue declined on a reported basis and is flat year-over-year on a fixed FX basis. Like other companies, this quarter, we saw the early signs of stabilization as users return to commercial activity online. This is true across most of our advertising verticals and geographies. Of course, the economic climate remains fragile. 
One thing I'd like to call out is our continuing journey to invest in and grow new businesses. We delivered strong growth in our non-ads revenues particularly from Cloud, Google Play and YouTube subscriptions. This, in turn, is helping our partners, developers and creators earn revenue and deliver valuable services to people. We are focused on the steps to build long-term value with these opportunities. 
Today, I'll review the quarter by walking through the 4 key areas for 2020 that you heard me mention over the last several quarters: creating the most helpful products for everyone; providing the most trusted experiences for our users; executing at scale; and creating sustainable value. 
First, creating the most helpful products for everyone. This has been especially important during this time. We are focused on providing locally relevant, helpful and authoritative information about COVID in over 70 languages in 200 countries. This has been an enormous effort across search and all our products. YouTube, for example, engage with public health officials in over 90 countries and services panels with locally relevant information in response to COVID-19 queries. 

On Google Maps and Search, we now display more than 12,000 COVID-19 testing centers across 20 countries, working with local governments and data providers to source accurate and helpful information. Using our technical capabilities, we are helping people find more information about local businesses such as takeout, curbside, updated hours, donations, gift cards and virtual services. 
With more kids at home, Google Play launched a special kids tab with only teacher-approved apps and YouTube has seen traction with learn at home as well as a virtual summer camp for kids called Camp YouTube, plus a virtual commencement series. 
To help Indian Internet users, we announced a Google for India Digitization Fund. Through this effort, we'll invest approximately $10 billion over the next 5 to 7 years to accelerate and participate in India's burgeoning digital economy. We'll enable information in local languages and apply technology and AI to important areas like health, education and agriculture. Jio platforms is the first partnership agreement in the fund and will work with them to help millions of users in India become owners of smartphones. 
Second, providing trusted experiences for our users. Doing even more to protect users' privacy, keep information safe and provide high-quality information was a key focus this quarter. In one important update, we now set people's location history and web in-app activity to delete automatically after 18 months as the default. We also integrated password checkup into our core security checkup to help people detect any instance of their online accounts being compromised. More than 100 million people have used it. Android 11 Beta launched this quarter with many new features to help people better manage their connected devices. It contains a significant focus on privacy and security, including more granular control over app permissions and restrictions on app's usage of background location. Our exposure notifications API for Android and iOS, developed with Apple, launched this quarter. It's designed to empower public health agencies to create apps to help fight the spread of COVID with the strongest user privacy safeguards. 
As of today, authorities have rolled out official apps in 12 countries to alert people that they were in contact with another person who tested positive for the virus and that they should isolate and get tested. We expect several more apps to launch in the next week or 2, including the first state apps in the U.S. We are also focused on election security efforts around the globe, whether it's removing coordinated foreign influence operations, prevent hacking and phishing attempts or enforcing our political ad policies that require transparency and prohibit narrow micro targeting. 
Moving on now to executing at scale. All businesses are adjusting to work-from-home and we are no exception. While building products across distributed teams was new for us, this experience allowed us to make good use of our infrastructure investments and productivity tools. G Suite products, in particular, Google Meet have been absolutely critical, and we quickly reengineered it and made it available widely to help millions of other businesses and organizations connect and collaborate. 
One area where we have executed really well to improve the user and merchant experience in the last year is shopping. We know that we and merchants face incredible competition for consumer attention and wallets. We are helping merchants lower their costs and improve their reach in a few ways. They can now list their products for free on the Google Shopping tab and on Search helping them drive more traffic and making our results more comprehensive and useful. We also recently announced that sellers on Buy on Google will no longer pay us a commission fee. Plus, we are giving retailers more choice by opening our platform to third-party providers, starting with PayPal and Shopify. Shopping ads also continue to be a great tool for merchants with new visual features for retailers such as smart shopping campaigns that let customers know about free shipping. We are continually adding more ways for advertisers to reach shoppers. 

Now let me talk about our fourth area, building sustainable value, which is all about driving business value for our partners and investing smartly in new areas. In our advertising business, our focus is on helping businesses find customers as they work to rebuild and recover. We gave search advisers the ability to add high-quality images to their ads, helping shoppers quickly see products to consider and take action faster. We added features to make video ads more easily shoppable and browsable on YouTube as more businesses are shifting to online to offset physical store closures. For SMBs, we are proud that so many are taking advantage of new features, including Smart Campaigns to reach new online audiences and promoted pins on Google Maps to let customers know that their businesses are open. And to empower businesses to understand in an easy and visual way, what products people are searching for, during the special circumstances that COVID-19 has created. The rising retail categories, too, surfaces fast-growing product-related categories. 
As I mentioned earlier, beyond advertising revenue, we see good traction in areas such as YouTube subscriptions, Google Play and Cloud. YouTube Premium Music and TV subscriptions performed well during the quarter. We are seeing strong demand for these services and are adding content regularly, including many Viacom networks like BET and Comedy Central. In Q2, Google Play app and game downloads were up more than 35% year-over-year, which means that revenue for developers continue to grow. 
Let me go a bit deeper on Cloud. In the first half of 2020, technology and innovation proved to be a significant recovery mechanism for businesses. Those who are shifting to digital and embracing the spirit to innovate are evolving and growing. Our commitment to bringing innovative products to market, building and scaling our go-to-market organization, and strengthening our partner network helped us continue to meet the growing needs of our customers this quarter. We see 2 distinct trends as businesses embrace the future of work. 
First, the future of business will be more digital. Customers are choosing Google Cloud to either lower their cost by improving operating efficiency or to drive innovation through digital transformation. Brands like Keurig Dr. Pepper, Deutsche Bank, Lowe's, Telefónica, Orange and Group Renault. And we are helping many government agencies deliver care for their citizens, including the states of Oklahoma and New York here in the U.S., and Italy and Spain in Europe. 
Second, the future of work will be more collaborative. Virtual collaboration is critical in order to adapt and succeed in the changing global landscape. In Q2, we saw continued demand from customers using G Suite to help their employees work from home, including Wipro in India and expanded our relationship with the state of Arizona here in the U.S. Our customers are using G Suite tools across industries in new ways, whether it be financial advisers working with clients, doctors and nurses turning to telemedicine or teachers educating students with remote learning. In Q2, we peaked at more than 600 million Meet participants in a single week. As one example, PwC employees reached nearly 10 million hours of video conferencing in Google Meet in a single month. To make collaboration easier for everyone, we introduced an integrated workspace for Gmail, Chat, Meet and Drive on mobile and desktop. Our Cloud product strategy is differentiated and our investments in direct sales and indirect distribution are beginning to deliver results. 
Before I move to Other Bets, I want to note that our hardware team continues to make good progress, and I'm excited by the new upcoming devices we have coming this fall. 

And finally, in our Other Bets. Waymo announced that Fiat Chrysler automobiles will work with Waymo as its strategic partner for L4 autonomous technology across our full portfolio. We also entered into a partnership agreement with Volvo Car Group to work together to integrate the Waymo driver into an all-new electric vehicle platform for ride-hailing services. Finally, Waymo closed its externally-led investment round, bringing the total funding to $3.2 billion, which includes investment from Alphabet. And Wing's drone delivery service started delivering library books to students in Virginia. 
In closing, it's an important and uncertain time in the world. We are all grappling with the pandemic and a struggling economy, while also reckoning with centuries of injustice that affect our Black communities every day. John Lewis' funeral today provides a timely reminder of the struggle. In June, we announced a significant package of commitments to help our Black+ community internally at Google as well as the wider Black community. This included product experiences that matter to Black users, including the option for business owners to identify their business as Black-owned in Google Maps and search. We also announced $175 million economic opportunity package to support Black business owners, start-up founders, job seekers and developers. In addition to YouTube's $100 million fund to amplify Black creators and orders. We commit to contributing to long-term meaningful change, both externally and within Google. And with that, I'll now turn it over to Ruth.
Ruth Porat
Thanks, Sundar. We are cautiously encouraged by our results for the second quarter, although mindful of the fragile global economic environment. Our advertising revenues gradually improved through the quarter, and our non-advertising revenue lines maintained their strong performance particularly Google Cloud and Play. I will begin with a review of the quarter on a consolidated basis for Alphabet, focusing on year-over-year changes. I will then review results for Google, followed by Other Bets and conclude with outlook. Sundar and I will then take your questions. 
Starting with consolidated Alphabet results, our total revenues in the second quarter were $38.3 billion, down 2% year-on-year and flat in constant currency. Year-on-year declines in our advertising revenues from Search and Network were offset by growth in Google Other and Google Cloud revenues. Details of Alphabet's consolidated revenues by geographic region are available in our earnings press release. Across each region, we saw a gradual improvement in revenues in the quarter with some differences reflecting product mix. In terms of the foreign exchange impact, exchange rate movements resulted in approximately a 2% headwind to reported revenues. 
Regarding our key expense lines. On a consolidated basis, total cost of revenues, including TAC, was $18.6 billion, up 7% year-on-year. Other cost of revenues on a consolidated basis was $11.9 billion, up 18% year-over-year primarily driven by Google-related expenses. The biggest factors here again this quarter were costs associated with our data centers and other operations, including depreciation and then content acquisition costs primarily driven by content costs for YouTube TV and our paid YouTube Music and premium subscription services, followed by costs for YouTube's advertising-supported content. 
Operating expenses were $13.4 billion, up 7% year-on-year. Headcount growth was the largest driver of year-on-year growth for both R&D and G&A. Secondarily, the increase in G&A reflects contributions mainly for COVID response and reserves for estimated credit losses of our customers. The year-on-year decline in sales and marketing expenses was due to lower advertising and promotional spend as we paused or rescheduled campaigns and pivoted to digital formats for flagship events. All 3 categories benefited from lower T&E expenses. Stock-based compensation totaled $3.3 billion. Headcount was up 4,450 from the first quarter. Again, the majority of new hires were engineers and product managers. In terms of product areas, the most sizable headcount increases were again in Google Cloud for both technical and sales roles. 

Operating income was $6.4 billion, down 30% year-over-year, and our operating margin in the quarter was 17%. Other income and expense was $1.9 billion, which primarily reflects an unrealized increase in the market value of equity securities. We provide more detail on the line items within OI&E in our earnings press release. 
Our effective tax rate was 15.9%. Net income was $7 billion, and earnings per diluted share were $10.13. 
Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow. Cash CapEx for the quarter was $5.4 billion, which I will discuss in the Google segment results. Operating cash flow was $14 billion with free cash flow of $8.6 billion. We repurchased $6.9 billion of our shares. We ended the quarter with cash and marketable securities of approximately $121 billion. 
Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with our Google segment. Revenues were $38 billion, down 2% year-over-year. I'll now go through the individual advertising revenue lines. Starting with Google Search and other advertising revenues. We generated $21.3 billion in revenues in the quarter, down 10% year-over-year in the aggregate with improvement as the quarter progressed. We saw a gradual return in user search activity to more commercial topics throughout the quarter followed by an increase in spending by advertisers. This resulted in an improvement in year-on-year search revenue trends during the quarter with Search revenues essentially flat to last year by the end of June. 
YouTube advertising revenues were $3.8 billion, up 6% year-on-year driven by ongoing substantial growth in direct response offset by a continued decline in brand advertising, which then moderated toward the end of the quarter. 
Network advertising revenues were $4.7 billion, down 10% year-on-year with trends improving somewhat toward the end of the quarter as advertisers spend began to return. 
Turning to Google Cloud, including GCP and G Suite. Revenues were $3 billion for the second quarter, up 43% year-over-year. GCP maintained the strong level of revenue growth it delivered in the first quarter, and its revenue growth was again meaningfully above cloud overall. GCP growth was again led by our infrastructure offerings and our data and analytics platform. Overall, the lower Google Cloud revenue growth in the second quarter relative to the first quarter reflects the fact that G Suite lapped a price increase that was introduced in April last year. G suite maintained healthy growth in average revenue per seat as well as in seat growth, which does not include customers who took advantage of our free trials as they shifted their employees to work-from-home. 
Other revenues were $5.1 billion, up 26% year-over-year primarily driven by growth in Play and YouTube non-advertising revenues. Within Play, app revenues in the second quarter benefited from the impact of very strong growth in the number of active buyers with more people at home looking for entertainment. Within YouTube subscription revenues, we continue to benefit from subscriber growth across its various offerings. Total traffic acquisition costs were $6.7 billion or 22% of total advertising revenues and down 8% year-over-year. Total TAC, as a percentage of total advertising revenues, was up slightly year-over-year. 
Google operating income was $7.6 billion, down 26% versus last year, and the operating margin was 20%. Google accrued CapEx for the quarter was $4.8 billion, reflecting investments in servers, data centers and office facilities. 
Moving on to the performance of Other Bets. For the second quarter, revenues were $148 million primarily generated by Fiber and Verily. The operating loss was $1.1 billion. 
Let me end with our outlook. As I said earlier, ads revenue gradually improved during the quarter across Search, YouTube and network. However, we believe it is premature to gauge the durability of recent trends, given the obvious uncertainty of the global macro environment. 

As we discussed on last quarter's earnings call, global macroeconomic performance has tended to be correlated with ad spend and is a key signal to monitor. Over the long term, we remain optimistic about the underlying strength of our business. In terms of Google Cloud, we are pleased with the traction we're having with large customers who are making multiyear commitments with us. This is reflected in the strength of our backlog, which ended the quarter at $14.8 billion, substantially all of which relates to Google Cloud. This performance is a result of the investments we are making into the cloud go-to-market organization. Google Play's Q2 results reflect growth in the number of new buyers with accelerated adoption as people stayed home. Performance also reflects the significant investments we have made in the ecosystem to support developers and users, such as successful promotion and adoption of our partners' apps and games in new locales around the world and expanding the availability of local forms of digital payments. 
Moving on to profitability. The decline in our Search revenues put significant pressure on profitability, which was further impacted by our ongoing investments for long-term growth. As I discussed last quarter, much of our expense base, both in cost of revenues and OpEx is not directly correlated with changes in revenues. For example, although TAC and content acquisition costs are obviously tied to revenues, there's a sizable percentage of items in other cost of revenues that are generally less variable in nature, such as depreciation and operations costs of our technical infrastructure as well as for activities like customer support and content review. We remain focused on the user and customer experience, and we'll continue to invest to support our products. .
With respect to operating expenses, although we still expect the pace of headcount growth to decelerate somewhat in 2020, we're continuing to hire aggressively in priority areas like cloud. We still expect that headcount additions will be seasonally higher in Q3 as we bring on new graduates. Consistent with prior years, we expect sales and marketing expenses to be more heavily weighted to the back half of the year, in part to support product launches and the holiday season. 
Turning to CapEx. We continue to expect a modest decrease in the level of total CapEx in 2020 compared with last year. This is particularly due to our decision to slow the pace at which we acquire office buildings in the near term as we focus on reimagining the optimal work environment. This also reflects the slower pace of ground-up construction for both our office facilities and data centers due to COVID-19. In terms of technical infrastructure, as we discussed last quarter, we anticipate investment to remain at roughly the same level as in 2019 with relatively more spend on servers than on data center construction and benefiting from our ongoing focus on server efficiency. With respect to capital allocation, our primary use of capital continues to be, to support organic growth in our businesses followed by retaining flexibility for acquisitions and investments. We complement these growth drivers with a return of capital. As we indicated in our press release today, our Board has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $28 billion of our Class C stock. Thank you, and Sundar and I will now take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. And our first question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan from UBS.
Eric Sheridan
Maybe two, if I can, for Sundar. One, on the commerce initiatives, a lot of announcements from the company in the quarter, moving towards sort of commission-free and amplifying both the advertising and e-commerce efforts. I want to understand some of the moves you're making strategically and how you think that positions you broadly against, obviously, an e-commerce landscape that's seeing a lot of pulled forward penetration given the current environment. And second on YouTube, obviously, a fairly volatile brand advertising environment and TV advertising remains in flux. What are the opportunities both in the U.S. and globally to go after sort of TV ad budgets under the YouTube umbrella?

Sundar Pichai
On Shopping, I spoke a little bit in my remarks, but really excited at the potential there. The team has been executing very well. Overall, users come to Google a lot to find the products they are looking for, but we see an opportunity to invest and make the experience better. Sometimes the journeys may fail because they don't find what they're looking for. So we want to make sure it's comprehensive. 
Next when people find what they like, we want to make it simple for them to transact. And so working on that end-to-end experience has been a big focus. And obviously, making sure for merchants, really making sure we are open to business for merchants, and we are giving value to them has been the focus. The early indications are that users are responding positively, both in terms of user engagement and more importantly, giving value back to merchants for their investment there. So in some ways, it's a return to our first principles. We want to ensure that Google is the best place for merchants to connect with users. And so I'm excited by it, and you'll continue to see us focus in this area. 
The second was on YouTube brand. Obviously, YouTube has been doing well in terms of engagement and watch time. And so we see a long-term opportunity there. We've had strength on direct response as well through this quarter. But on brand, which was your question, we are obviously investing not just in YouTube main product, YouTube TV as well. And so areas where we can offer a bundle, advertisers are interested in streaming, and so bringing that bundle together, especially to advertisers and upfronts through YouTube Select is a big opportunity as well. So we are focused on that.
Operator
And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan.
Douglas Anmuth
I have two. Just first, Ruth, curious if you can just talk about the cost structure a little bit more. We know you'll continue to invest to drive growth over the long term. Just curious how you're thinking about it as the top line starts to recover more hopefully over coming quarters. And then secondly, I know you said that search trends were flat to last year by the end of June. Just curious if there's anything you could add in terms of what you've seen more recently over the last month as well.
Ruth Porat
Thanks for this, Doug. So in terms of cost structure, as we talked about last quarter, we have been focused on taking steps to enhance efficiency in the near term. And that being said, as Sundar and I both noted, what you're seeing is the fact that we do remain focused on investing for the long term. So sort of breaking that down in cost of revenues, while TAC and content acquisition costs are obviously tied to revenues, there is a sizable percentage of other cost of revenues that are not directly correlated with revenue growth, as I noted in opening comments, and we are very focused on the user experience and the overall ecosystem. So we are investing to make sure that we're supporting our products so they remain reliable in all environments. 
And then in OpEx, much of our operating expense is generally less variable and not necessarily correlating to revenues in the near term. So in terms of a couple of the items, although we do continue to expect the year-on-year headcount growth rate to decelerate, as I noted, we are hiring aggressively in priority areas like Cloud. And so we're taking near-term steps to enhance efficiency but still investing for the long term. So we're trying to make sure that we're getting those tradeoffs right. And as I noted, we do expect the year-on-year headcount growth rate in 2020 to be down somewhat from the 20% year-on-year rate last year, and that's even adjusting for 2 items that put upward pressure on headcount growth. The first, we're moving certain customer support roles from third-party vendors to Google's in-house operation center. That is actually OpEx neutral, but does increase reported spend. And then second, the pending acquisition of Fitbit. So we're trying to navigate it appropriately. 

In terms of your second question, in terms of search trends and what we saw throughout the quarter, I would say that following a rough end to the first quarter, ads revenue gradually improved in the quarter, not only in Search, but YouTube and Network. And so for Search, we ended March at a midteens percentage decline in year-on-year revenues. And then as we progressed through the second quarter, we saw a gradual return in user search activity to more commercial topics, and then that was followed by an increase in spending by advertisers. So that resulted in a gradual improvement in year-on-year Search revenue trends in the second quarter. We ended basically flat to last year by the end of June and you know to carry it forward, although we're pleased that ads revenue gradually improved throughout the quarter. 
As I said, we do believe it's premature to say, they were out of the woods given the fragile nature of the macro environment. And as you're aware, ad spend does tend to be correlated with macroeconomic performance. And so the macro backdrop will continue to be a key signal to monitor. But to your question, based on our estimates from the end of June through last quarter, there has been a modest improvement in July.
Operator
And our next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs.
Heather Bellini
I just wanted to ask a question on -- two questions related to Google Cloud, if I could. One, Sundar, I was wondering if you could share with us how you've seen the change in pace of customers migrating workloads to the cloud given COVID? And I'm also wondering if you 