Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call April 27, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Jim Friedland - Director, Investor Relations
Sundar Pichai - Chief Executive Officer
Philipp Schindler - Senior Vice President and CBO
Ruth Porat - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley
Doug Anmuth - JPMorgan
Brent Thill - Jefferies
Justin Post - Bank of America
Colin Sebastian - Baird
Mark Mahaney - ISI
Michael Nathanson - MoffettNathanson
Brian Fitzgerald - Wells Fargo
Operator
Welcome, everyone, and thank you for standing by for the Alphabet First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I’d now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Jim Friedland
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet’s first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar Pichai; Philipp Schindler; and Ruth Porat.
Now I will quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business, operations and financial performance, including the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on those areas may be considered forward-looking and such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today’s earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor.
And now, I will turn the call over to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai
Thank you, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. After hard year, people in some parts of the world are beginning to rebuild their lives, businesses and communities. But recovery is far from uniform across the globe as the tragic scenes in countries like India and Brazil remind us.
We are continuing to help support public health officials in their vital and urgent work. Our focus is on providing authoritative information. We are helping over 100 government agencies and non-profits worldwide, distribute critical information and billions of PSAs about COVID-19 and vaccines, and Google Cloud technologies powering a virtual agent to help make vaccination appointments over the phone, supporting 28 languages and dialects for those with limited internet access. We are focused on doing our part to help.
In some parts of the world, the economy began to rebound, which created a rising tide in the first quarter that benefited a number of sectors, including existing and emerging companies and partners. For example, data suggests that investment in startups is at an all-time high.
Our product releases are returning to a regular cadence. I am particularly excited that our developer event Google IO is back this year, all virtual and free for everyone on May 18th through 20th. We will have significant product updates and announcements and I invite you all to tune in.
Today, I will briefly mention a few highlights from the past quarter and go a bit deeper on Cloud. Then Philip will discuss advertising and partnership developments. Finally, Ruth will cover the quarterly results.
Quickly turning to product highlights of the quarter. Our knowledge and information services like Search and Maps remain at the heart of our mission to provide helpful and accurate information during important moments.
People have turned to Google Search more than ever since the pandemic began. We see hundreds of millions of searches every day for COVID and related to health information. People are also searching for jobs. To help them, job seekers can now use search to quickly and easily find roles that do not require a college degree and we are working together with a top employment websites to make the service even better.
Maps, we will be adding over 100 AI-powered improvements this year, such as indoor Live View, which helps you navigate airports, transit stations and malls using augmented reality.
Last quarter, I mentioned Google News Showcase, our $1 billion investment in the news industry. I am pleased to see continued momentum this quarter with new launches in the UK, Italy, Argentina and Australia. In Q1, we added more than 170 publications across 12 countries with more coming soon.
With respect to YouTube, people continue to find all types of informational content from educational videos to podcast. In fact, according to a recent study conducted by Ipsos, 77% of respondents say they used YouTube during 2020 to learn a new skill. YouTube Shorts continues to gain popularity with over 6.5 billion daily views as of March, up from 3.5 billion at the end of 2020.
We have added a new metric to our transparency reports called the Violative View Rate, which will help us estimate what percentage of views on YouTube come from content that violates our policy. In Q4 of last year, YouTube’s Violative View Rate was between 16 and 18 views out of every 10,000. This is down over 70% compared to the same quarter in 2017, in large part, thanks to our investments in machine learning.
And we also mentioned Chrome OS, which this quarter celebrated 10 years. It’s been a valuable tool for millions of students and teachers during the pandemic. According to third parties, Chromebooks were the most popular device in K-12 Education globally for the last year.
Next, I will move to Cloud, where we continue to see strong performance across both Google Cloud Platform and Workspace. Q1 revenue grew 46% year-over-year, with GCP’s revenue growth rate once again meaningfully about Cloud overall. We continue to unlock the value of the Google ecosystem by signing multi-year multi-product partnerships with companies like Global Payments and Grupo Global.
And just yesterday, we announced a new Google-wide partnership with Univision, which is migrating to our cloud, continuing to distribute content on YouTube and reaching customers we are play and act.
In cloud, there are three distinct market trends, shaping our growth and driving our product and go-to-market strategy. First, we see very strong customer momentum in the Data Cloud. Our expertise in real-time data and analytics is winning companies like Twitter and Ingersoll Rand, who are moving their complex data workloads to Google Cloud.
Our strength in AI and ML is also helping financial services customers, like HSBC, Commerce Bank, SCB Group and BBVA improve efficiency of payments, reduce fraud and risk, and deliver faster payment solutions. This past quarter, we released new functionality for BigQuery, delivering significantly better performance for business intelligence queries.
Second, we are seeing customers wanting a robust infrastructure cloud in order to create operational efficiencies and reduce IT costs. We are winning large IT transformation deals with companies that are migrating their data centers to Google Cloud. Multi-cloud remains a differentiator as it provides the easiest and most open development environment for customers like Taylor’s allowing them to access and move their data between various plants.
Third, we continue to deliver helpful innovations to enable hybrid work with Google Workspace. This includes digital tools for frontline workers like nurses and retail store workers, as well as new security offerings. These innovations have helped grow our revenue proceed and the number of seats in the last quarter. Workspace is being adopted by customers, including Keralty in healthcare, Sun Life in financial services and Airbus in manufacturing and aviation.
Now, a brief update on Other Bets. Waymo’s fully autonomous public ride hailing service in Phoenix is providing hundreds of rides per week. In San Francisco, Waymo’s began limited employee testing. I am pleased by the progress here and look forward to Waymo’s continued momentum under the leadership of new co-CEOs, Tekedra and Dmitri.
Calico and its partner, AbbVie, announced that it has entered clinical stage programs for new drug therapies for cancer and neurodegenerative diseases, like ALS, Parkinson’s disease and traumatic brain injury.
Before I close, I want to mention that in 2021, in the U.S. alone, we plan to invest over $7 billion in offices and data centers, and create at least 10,000 new full-time jobs. And as we do this, we continue to make progress on our sustainability goals.
We matched our operations with 100% renewable energy for the past four years and we are working towards operating on carbon-free energy round the clock by 2030, a far more ambitious goal that we hope will be transformative for the industry. Five of our data centers in Europe and North America are already operating near or at 90% carbon-free energy around the clock.
We are also working towards our commitment to help 1 billion people make more sustainable choices with our services by 2022. One example of how we are doing this is a new AI-powered feature in Maps that will show the route with the lowest carbon footprint when ETAs are the same. You will also be able to compare the carbon impact between routes.
Finally, as we look ahead to the rest of 2021, our four big themes continue to guide us; first, building and providing the most helpful products and services; second, continuing to earn the trust of our users by investing in high-quality information and keeping users’ data safe and private; third, strong execution as a company, particularly as we start to reopen our offices; and fourth, building sustainable value in our own business and for our partners.
As always, thank you to our Googlers around the world for a great start to the year. To everyone, I look forward to seeing you at IO. Over to Philipp.
Philipp Schindler
Thanks, Sundar, and good afternoon, everyone. It’s great to be joining you again today. We are pleased with a strong growth in Google Services revenues in the first quarter. Year-on-year performance reflects elevated consumer online activity, broad-based strength and advertiser spend, and lapping of the initial impact of the pandemic on advertising revenues that began in March last year.
In the first quarter in Search, we saw sustained strength across most categories led by retail. We also saw strong performance in tech and CPG. In YouTube, we had phenomenal growth driven by Direct Response, followed by continued strength in brand.
We have seen great momentum in TrueView for action ads, with a number of advertisers using the format doubling over the past year. In Network exceptional growth was driven by AdMob and Ad Manager with particular strength in app campaigns. Google other revenues were driven by growth in Google Play and YouTube’s non-advertising revenues, followed by hardware.
I would now like to take a few minutes to dive deeper into the trends we are seeing in our business. As Sundar touched on earlier, the pandemic is evolving in different ways across the world. Some countries are in advanced stages of reopening, others are facing reacceleration of cases and there’s everything in between. It’s never been more important to help businesses navigate the pandemic as circumstances change.
On travel, we are starting to see a renewed interest from users as they turn to Google to plan their next trip, even before they are ready to book. Every travel partner is looking to understand where demand is going and we are helping them find these opportunities through insights and automation.
For American Airlines, for example, that meant using our insight tools to anticipate demand on untapped routes. These newly prioritized routes had a significantly higher booking rate in Search this quarter, compared to last quarter.
Also, just last month, we made it free for hotels and travel companies to list their booking links, similar to what we did with shopping last year. For consumers, it means more choice. For hotels and travel companies, it means free exposure on Google. For advertisers, it means paid campaigns can be augmented with free listings. We are already seeing positive results across the Board.
Let me switch gears now and talk about retail where we had a very strong quarter. As you know, we have taken important steps over the past year to accelerate an open retail ecosystem. We made product listings free, remove commission fees and open our shopping platform to Shopify and PayPal.
We are also helping retailers lean into some key opportunities, such as innovating in omnichannel, as the line between digital and physical retail continues to blur and tapping into commercial intent on YouTube and other surfaces. Let me talk about both.
Over the last six months people’s shopping preferences have shifted constantly in response to changing conditions. It’s not just online. It’s not just offline. It’s a mix. And that’s our sweet spot with Search, Maps and YouTube.
Last quarter we talked about a search and searches for available near me and curbside pickup. That trend has not changed. Searches for local and businesses are up 80% versus last year. Omnichannel is here to stay.
Take Dick’s Sporting Goods. Throughout the pandemic they accelerated curbside pickup, pickup in store and ship from store fulfillment options in Search. This approach contributed to 100% year-over-year increase in e-commerce sales in 2020. And just recently, they activated YouTube to build awareness for new store concepts.
Michaels, the arts and crafts store also activated their omnichannel fulfillment approach using Search and Maps. And to meet surging demand for art supplies, they use TrueView for action to tap into the vast number of arts and crafts searches happening on YouTube. In 2020, their e-commerce sales were up 350%.
We are also doing more to help merchants tap into the incredible innate commercial behavior across Search and YouTube. Google Merchants can now plug their product feeds right into the video action campaigns and early adopters are seeing huge results.
Luxury cosmetics company, Clarins HK had beautiful product imagery from their Google Merchant feed as an extension and saw 68% conversion rate uplift within three weeks. Any merchant can now light this up with a single click in our Google Merchant Center.
Speaking of YouTube, we are helping advertisers address both brand and performance goals at scale, driving higher return on ad spend at a time when they needed most. We are only a few years in on Direct Response and we think there’s significant opportunity for innovation that will improve the user experience and provide better ROI for advertisers.
On the performance side, advertisers of all sizes are actually seeing incredible results. Like Globo Group fitness company, Les Mills was hit hard when their 20,000 partner gyms closed during lockdown. They accelerated digital and grew app subscribers by almost 7x with TrueView for Action.
We are seeing strong growth in YouTube’s Brand business, fueled by global consumer trend from linear TV toward streaming video. With over 2 billion monthly logged in users and over 1 billion hours of video watched every day, YouTube is offering advertisers efficient reach to large audiences, which are incremental to those found on TV.
Large brands are benefiting from this trend. Taco Bell saw 27% incremental reach for their limited time offer campaigns and Kellogg’s saw incremental reach of over 30% for their recent Special K campaign.
Before I close, I want to take a minute to highlight our work with partners. Sundar mentioned Google News Showcase. We now have deals with 600 plus publishers across more than 12 countries. Le Monde in France, Der Spiegel and Stern in Germany, Clarin in Argentina, Evening Standard in the U.K., just to name a few and we are continuing to expand the program.
We are also developing more valuable relationships with some of our strategic partners. By teaming up, we are able to build new experiences for our users while helping our partners innovate and grow.
We have gone well beyond ads to bring the best of Google across Cloud, Play, YouTube and more to help them do just that. Sundar mentioned Univision, in the quarter we also announced T-Mobile, Albertsons, Allianz and Munich Re.
I want to thank our customers and partners for their collaboration. We have always said, we succeed only when they succeed. And I also want to think of product, partnership, sales and support teams for their amazing work and innovation.
I will now hand off the call to Ruth.
Ruth Porat
Thank you, Philipp. Our very strong financial results in the first quarter reflect both lapping the impact of COVID on our business beginning in March 2020, as well as the benefit of excellent underlying operating performance.
My focus will be on year-over-year comparisons for the first quarter unless I state otherwise. I will start with results at the Alphabet level, followed by segment results and conclude with our outlook.
For the first quarter, our consolidated revenues were $55.3 billion, up 34% or up 32% in constant currency, reflecting elevated consumer activity online and broad-based increases in advertiser spending within Google Services, as well as ongoing strength in Google Cloud.
Our total cost of revenues was $24.1 billion up 27%, primarily driven by other cost of revenues, which was $14.4 billion up 25%, followed by TAC, which was $9.7 billion, up 30%. Within Other cost of revenues, the biggest factors are, first, content acquisition costs, primarily driven by costs for YouTube’s advertising supported content, followed by costs for subscription content.
And second, costs associated with data centers and other operations, offset partially by a reduction in depreciation expense due to changes to estimated useful lives of servers in certain network equipment.
Operating expenses were $14.8 billion, up 4%. In terms of the three component parts of OpEx. First, the increase in R&D expenses was driven primarily by headcount growth.
Second, sales and marketing expenses were essentially flat, reflecting headcount growth, which was offset by lower spend on ads and promo, as well as on travel and entertainment.
Finally, the decline in G&A reflects the benefit of lapping the unusually high allowances for credit losses recorded in the first quarter of 2020 due to the impact of COVID offset by charges relating to certain legal matters.
Headcount was up 4,694 from the fourth quarter, including more than 1,800 Fitbit employees who joined us in Q1. Again, the majority of new hires were engineers and product managers.
Operating income was $16.4 billion, up 106% and our operating margin in the quarter was 30%. Other income and expense was $4.8 billion, which primarily reflects unrealized gains in the value of investments in equity securities. Net income was $17.9 billion. Operating cash flow was $19.3 billion, with free cash flow of $13.3 billion in the quarter and $50.7 billion for the trailing 12 months. We ended the first quarter with $135 billion in cash and marketable securities.
Let me now turn to our segment financial results, starting with our Google Services segment. Total Google Services revenues were $51.2 billion up 34%, consisting of Google Search and other advertising revenues of $31.9 billion in the quarter up 30%, with strength across most categories led by retail.
YouTube advertising revenues of $6 billion up 49%, driven by exceptional performance in Direct Response and ongoing strength in brand advertising. Network advertising revenues of $6.8 billion up 30%, driven by AdMob and Ad Manager.
Other revenues were $6.5 billion up 46%, primarily driven by growth in Play and YouTube non-advertising revenues followed by hardware, which benefited from the addition of Fitbit revenues. Google Services operating income was $19.5 billion, up 69% and the operating margin was 38%.
Turning to the Google Cloud segment, including GCP and Google Workspace, revenues were $4 billion for the first quarter up 46%. GCP’s revenue growth was again meaningfully above Cloud overall. Strong growth in Google Workspace revenues was driven by growth in both seats and average revenue per seat. Google Cloud had an operating loss of $1 billion. As to our Other Bets, in the first quarter, revenues were $198 million. The operating loss was $1.1 billion.
Let me end with our outlook for each segment and our investments more broadly. For Google Services, for the remainder of 2021, year-over-year comparisons will be affected meaningfully by the impact of COVID last year, with a greater benefit in Q2 from an easier comp relative to what you saw in Q1 and then beginning to lap stronger performance in the second half of the year.
In the first quarter, we continue to benefit from elevated consumer online activity and broad-based strength in advertiser spend. It is too early to say how durable this consumer behavior will be as economies recover and restrictions on mobility are lifted.
Within Other revenues, Play benefited from an increased level of user engagement starting in Q1 last year due to the pandemic, which we are now beginning to lap.
In terms of investment levels within Google Services, we still intend to invest aggressively to support the extraordinary opportunities we see. That being said, in some areas, like, travel and entertainment and marketing events, the pace of investment through the balance of the year may be affected by the pace of COVID recovery globally.
As for Google Cloud, our approach to building the business has not changed. We remain focused on revenue growth and we will continue to invest aggressively in products and our go-to-market organization, given the opportunity we see.
The operating results in Q1, in part reflects some notable items in the quarter. First, the lapping of the unusually high allowances for credit losses recorded in the first quarter of 2020, as I already mentioned. And second, lower depreciation expense due to the change in the estimated useful lives. Although, the dollar benefit will diminish throughout the course of the year across segments.
As we have noted previously, operating results should benefit from increased scale over time. However, at this point, we do remain focused on continuing to invest to build the cloud organization for long-term performance. In terms of Other Bets, we continue to invest with a focus on the long-term value creation opportunity.
Turning to CapEx, at a consolidated level, the results reflect ongoing investment in our technical infrastructure, offset by a slower pace of investment in office facilities, given the ongoing impact of COVID. Within technical infrastructure, servers continue to be the largest driver of investment, as we continue to invest to support Cloud, Search, Ads and machine learning.
Finally, with respect to capital allocation, our primary use of capital continues to be to support organic growth in our businesses, followed by retaining flexibility for acquisitions and investments. We complement these growth drivers with a return of capital. As we indicated in our press release today, our Board has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $50 billion of our Class C stock.
Thank you. And now, Sundar, Philipp and I will take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
Brian Nowak
Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. First one for Sundar. I appreciate the color on the four key priorities. I wanted to dig a little more into the build and provide the most helpful products and services. Maybe if you can sort of talk to us about Search, how do you think about the key investment priorities and innovation areas to continue to make Search more and more helpful for your users and your advertisers?
And the second one for Philipp, maybe similar question on YouTube. You’ve done such a great job in innovation around YouTube. Where do you see the largest incremental opportunities for further innovation at YouTube to deliver more outsized value for your advertisers? Thanks.
Sundar Pichai
Thanks. On Search, great question. I still think we are in very early stages. Recent example, which I was proud of was when the ship was stuck in the Suez Canal and then it got out. If you ask the question to Google, I think, very soon after that we had the right answer. It seems obvious to do except we need to provide right answers and without giving wrong answers or misinformation for many other things. So to do that is where all our underlying investments go and that’s how we think about it over the long-term.
BERT last year, I think, was a great example of it. It was one of our biggest quality improvements and that was based on the transformer breakthrough from our Google AI team, which laid the foundation for it.
So we are continuing to invest that way in the deep technology as the web is scaling up. There’s more information than ever before. So that’s a big part of what we are doing. Beyond that, there is a lot of opportunity to improve the user experience. You have seen our efforts around shopping. That’s one aspect of how we are working hard to improve the experience there. So - but we are looking at it pretty deeply. Philipp?
Philipp Schindler
Yes. On the YouTube side, let me start with our Direct Response business, growth was truly exceptional this quarter. DR was practically non-existent on YouTube a few years ago and it’s now a large and fast-growing business and we are just getting started in my view.
People already, as you know, go to YouTube to decide what they want to buy, and we want to make it easier for them to buy and make the discovery process overall a lot easier. And for creators, we launched new shoppable capabilities. So viewers can actually make purchases from their favorite creators directly on YouTube.
Just as an example, as part of our Brand Connect program, Calvin Klein tested these and drove over. I think it was, 200% lift in brand search and sold out multiple products actually. For merchants, they can now bring their product feeds directly into their video campaigns and I think we are still scratching the surface on what’s possible really with commercial intent on YouTube.
And then there is, of course, the opportunity to be a major platform for brands. Historical approaches to reaching audiences through, let’s just say, call it, linear TV don’t really work anymore. Advertisers are using YouTube now to reach the audience they can’t find anywhere else. And remember, more 18- to 49-year-olds are actually watching YouTube than all linear TV combined and brands are also seeing more incremental reach on YouTube compared to TV.
So we are starting to see advertisers by a mix actually of awareness and more action-oriented formats. They are driving reach and results across the funnel from awareness to consideration to action. So we see a lot of really interesting opportunities here.
Brian Nowak
Great. Thank you both.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Doug Anmuth
Thanks for taking the questions. I have two. First, Ruth, just want to ask you about Cloud. You saw some significant benefits just from the change in useful life. But I think in the past, you talked about 1Q perhaps being the biggest loss of the year. I was just curious if that’s still the case in your view going forward? And then, secondly, just given the management transition that we have seen at Waymo, should we expect any change in terms of how things are operated there going forward? Thank you.
Ruth Porat
Thanks for the question. So in terms of Cloud and overall performance, I think, the main point I would say is, I wouldn’t extrapolate generally from quarter-to-quarter, given we are still in the early stages of building the business. We do intend to continue to invest meaningfully in Cloud given the opportunity.
And so, as you said, there were a couple of things that benefited margins in the quarter, both the depreciation expense item, but also lapping the unusually high allowance for credit losses that were recorded back in the first quarter.
So, the main takeaway is we are continuing to invest. We will invest aggressively in products and go-to-market where we have talked about quite consistently over time. And it’s much as operating losses and operating margin will benefit from increased scale over time. At this point, we do remain focused on investing to build the organization for long-term performance.
Sundar Pichai
And Doug on Waymo, John is stepping down our CEO and it’s been -- he’s been planning for this transition, and Dmitri and Tekedra have been working closely with him. And so, we will continue our investments there.
Pretty excited that the fully autonomous experience of Waymo One is available in Phoenix and we a