Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG)  Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call October 26, 2021  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Jim Friedland – Director, Investor Relations
Philipp Schindler – Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer
Sundar Pichai – Chief Executive Officer
Ruth Porat – Chief Financial Officer 
Conference Call Participants
Eric Sheridan – Goldman Sachs
Brenda Ell – Morgan Stanley
Doug Anmuth – JPMorgan
Justin Post – Bank of Ameri ca
Mark Mahaney – ISI
Brent Thill – Jefferies
Michael Nathanson – Michael Nathanson
Ross Sandler – Barclays
Operator
Welcome, everyone, and thank you for standing by for the Alphabet Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Jim Friedland
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. With us today are Sundar Pichai, Philipp Schindler, and Ruth Porat. Now, I'll quickly cover the safe harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business operations and financial performance, including the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on those areas, may be considered forward-looking, and such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. During this call, we'll present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor. Now, I'll turn the call over to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai
Thank you, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. In 2016, I laid out our vision to become an AI-first Company. Five years later, this quarter's results show how our investments in AI are building more healthful products for people and for our partners in local communities. Today, I'll begin with new product highlights, then I'll cover our cloud business, followed by YouTube. First, product highlights. Search remains the heart of what we do. We have made remarkable advances over the past 23 years that benefits search and related products like Google Assistant, which just celebrated five years. Earlier this year, we announced that we reached a significant milestone with Multitask Unified Model or MUM for short. 
MUM is a thousand times more powerful than BERT and can understand information across many contexts, like text and images. At our Search On event in September, we shared how we are using MUM to improve Google Lens, so people can search using both images and words. We also shared that we are bringing a more visual shopping experience to Search, powered by Google Shopping graph. It links shoppers with over 24 billion product listings from merchants across the web. Google Maps now offers eco-friendly routing. It lets drivers in the U.S. choose a more fuel-efficient route, saving money and reducing emissions. 
Maps now has a wildfire layer so that people can get up-to-date details and make quick informed decisions during emergencies. Finally, in Search and our Discover feed, we are continuing to support the news ecosystem and make quality journalism more accessible. Philipp will give a bit more detail about our new showcase partnerships. Turning next to hardware, I hope you saw our fall Pixel event last week. I am very excited about the range of Pixel phones available this holiday season. The new Pixel 6 and 6 Pro bring together the best of Google AI, software and hardware, with the most advanced and inclusive cameras we've ever built. 
They're beautiful, fast, and powered by Google Tensor, a first-ever system on a chip. It's specifically built to support Google AI and machine learning on device, and provides a long-term foundation for our Pixel devices. We also introduced our new Nest Renew program, which uses Nest thermostats to support clean energy use in the home. On to Android. Android 12 is getting great reviews. It's the biggest design change in Android's history with new widgets to personalize your phone. We also introduced accessibility features that use gestures to control your phone and communicate. Android 12 is secured by default and private by design. New dashboards and indicators make it easier to view and adjust privacy permissions, and disable access to device sensors and location information. We've also made progress with the Made for India affordable smartphone, co-developed with Reliance. 
The JioPhone Next device features premium localized capabilities and is on track to launch in market by Diwali. On to cloud, where we see continued momentum with Q3 revenue growing 45% year-over-year, with GCP's revenue growth rate above Cloud overall. At Cloud Next, two weeks ago, we unveiled hundreds of new capabilities, services, and solutions. We also announced 20 new and expanded partnerships to support the growth and scale of our customers around the world. More than any other top cloud provider, Google Cloud has unique capabilities to meet the needs of enterprises, digital natives, and SMBs around the world. I'll highlight three. First, our leadership in real-time data, analytics and AI is winning customers like Carrefour Belgium, Deutsche Post DHL, and Wendy's, who are unlocking data to deliver unique business outcomes. BigQuery, our leading data warehouse solution is reducing costs and driving productivity at Cardinal Health and ATB Financial. 
Our differentiated AI and ML-based industry solutions are helping leading global companies. GE Appliances, a Haier Company is integrating Vision AI into their next-generation smart home appliances, and IKEA Retail is using recommendation AI to drive a 30% increase in customer click-through rate. Second, customers see value in our open scalable infrastructure that enables them to run workloads anywhere, on our cloud, at the edge, or in their data centers. Rodan + Fields scaled its SAP environment. Siemens Energy is migrating its global network of data centers and Company-wide SAP systems, and Indonesia's largest technology, digital native, GoTo Group is supporting over a 100 million monthly active users with Google Cloud. General Mills, Bell Canada, and Wells Fargo are harnessing our leadership in multi-cloud and our open development environment. 
To meet the unique digital sovereignty needs of customers around the world, we announced industry first partnerships with T-Systems in Germany and Thales in France. Third, as consumers, businesses and schools continue to shift towards hybrid work, the threats of cybersecurity continue to increase. Customers are turning to Google Workspace and our cybersecurity platform to provide the ease of use, collaboration, and security they need. These include organizations like Discovery, Common Spirit Health, and the state of Maryland, who want to foster creativity while securely protecting their users. We're also seeing strong growth in our broad portfolio of cyber security products. This includes Chronicle, one of our zero-trust offerings, with JetBlue users to detect cyber security threats, helping to protect its customers and enterprise. 
We're bringing our team's deep expertise to customers through the Google Cyber Security action team and a new Work Safer program, which provides best-in-class security for emails, meetings, messaging, and more. Earlier, I mentioned a few of the sustainability-related product features we announced. Our Cloud customers already benefit from operating on the world's cleanest cloud and last year we set an ambitious goal to run our data centers and campuses on 24/7 carbon-free energy by 2030. Two - thirds of the electricity consumed by Google data centers in 2020 was matched with local carbon-free sources on an hourly basis. 
And our new carbon footprint tool gives customers carbon emissions insights associated with their Google Cloud Platform usage. Now over to YouTube for a few highlights. We recently surpassed 50 million music and premium subscribers, including those in trial. And YouTube shots continues to see higher option rates. In the past year, the average number of daily first-time creators more than doubled. Next week as global leaders gather in Glasgow to address climate change, YouTube is partnering with COP26 to livestream conference activities, making the event more accessible for everyone. As we grow, we are maintaining our open global platform responsibly by removing harmful content and reducing bottom-line content.
Both our AI investments and the promotion of Clustered sources have helped us significantly lower the violated view rate, which is the percentage of views on YouTube from content that violates our policies. Onto our other bets. Waymo began welcoming riders to its trusted tester program in San Francisco in addition to its fully autonomous ride-hailing service currently in Phoenix. Next year, Waymo will open a dedicated trucking hub in the Dallas Fort Worth area, helping support commercial freight droughts across the Southwest. And we announced last week the first commercial expansion of things on demand, air delivery service to Walgreens customers in select locations.
To close, the world is slowly starting to travel and meet up in-person. In this quarter, I joined events virtually to celebrate some big milestones in regions around the world. Earlier this month, we announced a $1 billion investment in Africa over five-years to support the continent's digital transformation. And September mark 20 years since we opened our first office outside of the U.S. in Tokyo. We now have thousands of employees in 28 offices across the Asia Pacific region. And we are investing in cloud regions and digital skills programs to help expand economic opportunity there. As you can see, our business in APAC is growing really well. in Africa, Asia Pacific and beyond it's been a successful quarter and we have lots more innovation and product development on the way. Thanks to our employees around the world for their contributions. As we continue our [Indiscernible] to hybrid work, I hope to see more of you in person soon. Thank you and over to Philipp.
Philipp Schindler
Thanks, Sundar, and hi, everyone. It's great to be with you all today. We are pleased with the growth in Google Services revenues in the third quarter. Year-on-year performance was driven by broad-based strength and advertisers spend. Consumer online activity also remained elevated. In the third quarter, Retail was, again, by far the largest contributor to year-on-year of our Apps business. Media and entertainment, finance, and travel were also strong contributors. Let's take a deeper look at some of the trends that drove this quarter's performance.
First, from a big picture global recovery perspective, we continue to see a lot of unevenness. Some economies have restarted and re-accelerated or be at different speeds. Other countries, depending on local regulations and vaccines, have been slower to rebound. It's clear that uncertainty is the new normal. The world is in flux. So when it comes to anticipating change, predicting demand, and investing in innovation, businesses need as much support now as they did a year-and-a-half ago. And we continue to help, like in travel, where hotel free booking links are increasing traffic for many partners from OTAs to boutique hotels. Consumers like more choice. Travel partners like free exposure.
Jim Friedland
and advertisers like to augment paid campaigns with free listings. So last month we launched free [Indiscernible] for things to do, and a new ad format that makes it easier to promote local experiences. Now, when you search zip lining, aquariums, or the Tokyo Tower, you can buy tickets directly on Google. And then there are companies like Alaska Airlines that are harnessing first-party data and automation across search to navigate market fluidity and better understand the lifetime value of their customers. They have increased return on ad spend by 30% plus versus the same period pre COVID, beyond travel. Business of all kinds are increasingly adopting tools like AI driven automation and insights to connect with customers. No matter what stage of the recovery there in. 150 year-old luxury retailer
Philipp Schindler
de Bijenkorf turned to local insights and automation to speed up cross-border expansion beyond the Netherlands and Belgium to Germany, France, and Austria. With a multi-pronged approach, including Shopping campaigns, de Bijenkorf drove substantial growth throughout the pandemic. Returning visitors to online stores, were up fourfold in first half 2021 versus 2020, which leads me to Retail, where we had another stellar quarter. We've seen explosive growth in Digital over the last 27 months. But as the world begins to reopen, shoppers are returning to stores. Brick and mortar isn't dead. Instead, omni -channel is in full force. Searches for open now near me are four times globally versus last year. 
Strong growth in Local Shopping queries means people are researching the visits to stores more often before they go. As a result, we've seen more advertisers include in-store sales alongside e-commerce goals to drive omni -channel growth. Adoption has nearly doubled over the past year. Take COTS, it optimizes media spend into trending categories and launched curbside pickup just two weeks after its 1100 stores shutdown. After testing local inventory ads in Q4, COTS went all-in on omni -channel bidding across its paid search portfolio and is leaning heavily into a full funnel approach on YouTube, including CTV.
COTS (ph) net sales were up 31% year-over-year in Q2, led by higher foot traffic and continued strength in digital. Innovating an omni -channel and next-gen user experiences remains core to our Shopping strategy. A few of our latest launches include easier ways for business to show the local services they offer, from hair extensions to auto repair, across Search and Maps. Local inventory ads, it highlights which products are in stock and when to pick them up. Free shipping and easy return annotations across Search and Shopping, AI capabilities that bring in-store moments online and that users try before they buy, and then instantly shoppable images with Google Lens, plus a new visual, browsable experience on Search. There's a lot more to come, including tapping into commerce on YouTube.
From shoppable livestream experiments with retailers like, Sephora, Target and Walmart. To pilots that, that viewers by directly from the favorite creators videos we're still in the early innings of what’s possible. Our direct response momentum remains strong, video action campaigns are driving more conversions than previous formats, and by adding product feeds to these campaigns, advertisers are achieving on average, over 60% more conversions at a lower cost than those without. Our brand business is also performing well. As I said last quarter, YouTube's reach is becoming increasingly incremental to TV. We're helping advertisers find audiences they can't find anywhere else. Connected TV is driving part of this growth, is our fastest-growing screen.
The precision of digital paired with the scale of linear is proving to be an awesome combo. And even more so now with the expansion of video action campaigns for CTV. Advertisers can now drive conversions on the big screen, which brings me to help brands of all sizes continue to buy YouTube at both ends of the funnel to create future demand while they convert existing demand. And they're seeing upside. For example, we found that advertisers using both DR And brand video see brands driving 28% of conversion assists. Domino's Pizza is a great example. the UK business delivered a 9x return on ad spend on their direct response campaigns when paired with our brand campaigns. 
Lastly, I've said it before, and I'll say it again: our success is only possible because of our customers and partners. We do well only when they do well. And it's a result of the revenue share models we've talked about many times before. Three highlights, first, as Sundar mentioned, our commitment to high-quality journalism and open access to information remains steadfast. It's been one year since we launched new showcase. In Q3 alone, we signed over a 120 deals and launched in three new markets, Japan, Colombia, and Austria. And of the more than 1,000 publications across a dozen-plus countries that we now have on board, 90% are considered local, regional, or community newspapers. Second, over 2 million creators are now making money and building their businesses on YouTube via YouTube Partner Program with 10 different ways to monetize their content from Super Chat to Brand Connect.
The next-generation of businesses and media companies are being built by creators on YouTube and we're excited to help them grow. Third by echoes Sundar's excitement on Pixel, and to bring it to life and to users, we worked with an entire ecosystem of partners. We signed partnership agreements with over 45 carriers and retailers across 9 countries at launch, including deep collaboration, with each of the major U.S. carriers AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon. On behalf of many. I want to say how grateful we are to collaborate with so many amazing customers and partners everyday. We can't wait to start doing more of this in person again soon. Also, a huge thank you to our sales partnerships, product and support teams for their work and dedication. The impact you all continue to have is, as we say in Germany, [Indiscernible], with that Ruth over to you.
Ruth Porat
Thank you, Philipp. Our revenue performance in the third quarter reflects continued broad-based strength in advertisers spend and elevated consumer online activity, as well as a strong contribution from Google Cloud. My comments will be on a year-over-year comparisons for the third quarter unless I state otherwise. We will start with results at the Alphabet level, followed by segment results, and conclude with our outlook. For the third quarter, our consolidated revenues were 65.1 billion, up 41% or up 39% in constant currency. Our total cost of revenues was 27.6 billion, up 31% primarily driven by growth in TAC, which was 11.5 billion up 41%. 
Other cost of revenues were 16.1 billion, up 24%, reflecting in part the benefit from the change in useful lives meet earlier this year. The largest driver of the growth in other cost of revenues was content acquisition costs. Operating expenses were 16.5 billion, up 19%, in terms of the 3 component parts of opex. First, the increase in R&D expenses was driven primarily by headcount growth. Second, the growth in sales and marketing expenses was driven by headcount growth, followed by the continued ramp up of spending on ads and promo, in contrast to the pullback in the third quarter last year. Finally, the increase in G&A reflects the impact of charges relating to legal matters, followed by headcount growth.
Operating income was 21 billion, up 88%, and our operating margin was 32%. Other income and expense was 2 billion, which primarily reflects unrealized gains in the value of investments in equity securities. Net income was 18.9 billion. We continue to generate strong free cash flow of 18.7 billion in the quarter and 65.7 billion for the trailing 12 months. We ended the third quarter with 142 billion in cash and marketable securities. Let me now turn to our segment financial results, starting with our Google Services segment. Total Google Services revenues were 59.9 billion, up 41%.
Google Search and other advertising revenues of 37.9 billion in the quarter were up 44% with broad-based strength across our business, led again by strong growth in retail. YouTube advertising revenues of 7.2 billion, were up 43% due to strength in both direct response and brand advertising. The deceleration in the growth rate versus the second quarter was driven by lapping a strong recovery in brand in the third quarter of last year. Network advertising revenues of 8 billion were up 40%. Other revenues were 6.8 billion up 23% driven by growth in YouTube non-advertising revenues and hardware which benefited from the addition of Fitbit revenues.
Google Services operating income was 24 billion, up 66%, and the operating margin was 40%. Turning to the Google Cloud segment, revenues were 5 billion for the third quarter, up 45%. GCP's revenue growth was again above Cloud overall, reflecting significant growth in both infrastructure and platform services. Strong revenue growth in Google Workspace was driven by robust growth in both seats and average revenue per seat. Google Cloud had an operating loss of 644 million. As to our other bets in the third quarter, revenues were 182 million, the operating loss was 1.3 billion.
Let me close with some comments on our outlook. With respect to foreign exchange impact on reported revenues, based on current spot rates, we expect virtually no impact in Q4, in contrast to 1.5% tailwind in Q3 and 4% in Q2. In terms of outlook by segment. For Google Services, as I noted, the strength of our revenues in Q3 reflected both underlying strength in advertiser and user activity, as well as the impact from lapping weaker performance in the comparable period last year. Given the gradual recovery in results through the back half of 2020,
The benefit from lapping prior year performance diminished in Q3 versus Q2 and will diminish further in Q4. Within other revenues in the fourth quarter, we expect the ongoing drivers of revenue growth to the Hardware due to the benefit from the holiday selling season and inclusion of Fitbit, as well as YouTube subscriptions. Google Play's contribution to revenue growth will remain more muted given the ongoing impact of both lapping the increased level of user engagement that started in the first quarter of 2020 due to the pandemic, as well as the fee change that took effect on July 1. 
Within Google Services, we expect sales and marketing expenses to be elevated in the fourth quarter to support the holiday season. Turning to Google Cloud, we remain focused on revenue growth and are pleased with the trends we're seeing. In GCP, our customer wins, as Sundar noted, reflect our multi-year investments in products and solutions that are purpose-built to solve for the biggest opportunities within our targeted 8 industries. The benefit of these solutions to our customers is clear, and they are choosing to work with us as their long-term transformation partner. 
With respect to workspace, we are pleased with the ongoing momentum in both seat growth and average revenue per seat, which underscores the value of collaborative solutions, in particular, as people increasingly are embracing a hybrid work model. Across cloud, we continue to invest aggressively, both in growing our go-to-market and product teams, as well as building out our cloud regions. At the Alphabet level, headcount grew by nearly 6,000 in the third quarter, including our seasonal campus hires. And we expect robust headcount growth in Q4 for both Google Services and Google Cloud.
Turning to CAPEX, the results in the third quarter primarily reflect ongoing investment in our technical infrastructure, most notably in servers to support ongoing growth in Google Services and Google Cloud. We also continue to increase the pace of investment in fit-outs and ground-up construction of office facilities to accommodate our ongoing headcount growth globally. We will continue to pursue real estate acquisition opportunities where it makes sense, as you saw in our New York City announcement in Q3. Thank you. And now, Sundar, Philipp, and I will take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Eric Sheridan from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Eric Sheridan
Thank you very much for taking the questions. Maybe first one for Sundar, a big picture. Coming back to how you started the call, when you look out over the next three to five years, what do you see are some of the big investments that Google needs to make to marry your ambitions on AI, machine learning against aligning Google's broader product and services against the rising digitalization of the global economy. Would love to have that as a framing over the next three to five years. And then maybe -- I am not sure if directed better at Philipp or Ruth, but on a shorter duration basis, it seems to be an element of headwinds and tailwinds in the broader, can you talk a little bit about the business elements of Google's products and what elements of reopening dynamic you're seeing on a sector basis versus potential headwinds as we move into Q4 and next year from things like supply chain shortages, or labor shortages, or things like that. Thanks so much in advance for the color.
Sundar Pichai
Eric. Great question. You're right in The fact that AI and ML itself is broader, deeper investments we are driving, and we're using it across our product portfolio. The recent launch of Tensor in Pixel six a great example of that. So for example, we're willing to go as steep in the stack as needed. Silicon both on the cloud side with our Tensor Processing Units and Google Tensor on the client side is an example of that. Overall, thinking through compute, networking, building data centers, making sure they are clean and carbon-free, and really investing in the advanced models and algorithms on top, which is a lot of it just done by our AI research teams. So making sure we're able to attract the best talent across the world is all part of that. So but you you'll continue to me to see us undertake deep technology investments and beyond the horizon. That's why we're thinking even about areas like quantum computing and so on.
Philipp Schindler
So to the second part of your question, we continue to watch countries as vaccination rates climb and local regulations ease. We expect some amount of heterogeneity in recovery depending obviously on location and vaccination rates. But because every region is different, it's hard to make a generalization from the data right now. That said, the consumer shift to digital is real and will continue even as we start seeing people return to stores. Shopping habits have ebbed and flowed over the last 20 months. But the underlying takeaway is that people want more choice. They want more information, more flexibility, and we don't see this reversing. Omni -channel, I talked about it, is definitely in full force. 
I said this earlier. We've been really focused on building features and solutions to help retailers, large and small, succeed here. And we think this will continue as the world reopens, and shoppers fluctuate between online and in-store based on whatever is really more convenient. YouTube is exciting for many reasons. It's incredible to see lot of content that's valuable for people across so many topics, and we're helping advertisers tap into this. And whether it's browsing for inspiration, product research or actually making the purchase a billion shopping sessions happen across Google every day, and they are happening on search, in YouTube, in image search, in the shopping tab, on Lens, and so on. So frankly, we are really encouraged by the long-term opportunity in commerce, and we are laser focused on helping business of all sizes connect with their customers
Sundar Pichai
wherever they are.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
Brenda Ell
Hi. It's Brenda on for Brian. Thanks for taking our questions. We have two. The first one, you've made notable strides in the retail search category over the past 12 to 18 months, and there seems to be more to come. Can you talk to us about which other search verticals, where you are most excited to innovate and invest around the Nest, within the next year or two. My second question is, maybe one on augmented reality. You have made some real progress here and I have some budding product integrations. Philosophically, how do you think about the key augmented reality use cases you are focused on enabling? And do you need an Alphabet specific hardware set to capitalize on the opportunities? Thank you.
Sundar Pichai
I'll take the second one first. On augmented reality, we've -- for a while, we've deeply focused on thinking through computing for the long-term. We've talked about ambient computing, and it's just a matter of time before beyond phones, you will see other successful form factors and AI is an exciting part of that future. We are looking at all deep investments, we need to make. I think it's going to take some time. And so for example, when you look at something like Google Lens or when you look at the fact that we are making search work in a multimodal way, or when you think about YouTube and making sure it works well. We are AI world so we are, obviously, investing in all our services. 
And beyond that from a computing standpoint, both our hardware teams as well as our platform teams are thinking through definitely, and it's going to be a major area of investment for us. On the first question, I think Philipp spoke about Shopping via, obviously, searches -- part of what makes search so successful is people use it for a wide variety of use cases. And so we really invest comprehensively across all experiences, be it Local and Maps, be it images, be it videos. And so we're definitely investing a lot. People do come to search for education as well, so making sure we're comprehensive. Health has been a major area of focus, particularly through the pandemic. And so the strength of searches both in its depth and breadth and so, and then getting it tried with high focus on quality and will continue to do that.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Doug Anmuth
Thanks for taking the questions. I've two. First, was just curious if you're seeing any impact at all from the Apple iOS changes in your business and perhaps particularly in YouTube. And then second, given Retail, the biggest driver of services growth, and of course, you are really just touching all parts of the economy, any more commentary on how you're thinking about supply and labor shortage dynamics in the fourth quarter, and if you're perhaps seeing anything thus far there? Thank you.
Ruth Porat
Thanks for the question. Starting with the iOS 14 changes. So overall, as we said, we're pleased with the strength across our business in the third quarter, it was broad-based, it was global. In terms of the iOS 14 changes, specifically, they had a modest impact on YouTube revenues, that was primarily in direct response. I think as you all know well, focusing on privacy has been core to what we've been doing consistently. Let me have Phil take you through some more on that.
Philipp Schindler