Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMAT) Q3 2021 Results Conference Call August 19, 2021 4:30 PM ET

Company Participants

Gary Dickerson – President and Chief Executive Officer

Michael Sullivan – Corporate Vice President

Dan Durn – Chief Financial Officer

Conference Call Participants

C.J. Muse – Evercore

Stacy Rasgon – Bernstein Research

John Pitzer (ph) – Credit Risk

Vivek Arya – Bank of America Securities

Toshiya Hari – Goldman Sachs

Atif Malik – Citi

Krish Sankar – Cowen and Company

Harlan Sur – JPMorgan

Timothy Arcuri – UBS

Joe Quatrochi – Wells Fargo

Operator

Welcome to the Applied Materials Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterward, you will be invited to participate in a question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the conference over to Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President. Please go ahead, sir.

Michael Sullivan

Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you for joining Applied's Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me are Gary Dickerson (ph), our President and CEO, and Dan Durn (ph), our Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ. Information concerning the risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied's most recent Form 10-Q and 8-K filings with the SEC. Today's call also includes non-GAAP financial measures.

Reconciliations to GAAP measures are found in today's earnings press release and in our quarterly earnings materials, which are available on the IR page of our website at appliedmaterials.com. Before we begin, I have some calendar announcements. On the 8th of September at 9:00 A.M. Pacific Time, we plan to host the third event in our Master Class series, this time focusing on the ICAPS markets and also on heterogeneous design and advanced packaging. Then, on the 18th of October, also at 9:00 AM Pacific Time, we plan to hold our fourth Master Class. We'll focus on process control and process optimization, including AIx platform technologies like e-beam and AI. We hope you'll join us. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Gary Dickerson.

Gary Dickerson

Thank you, Mike. In our third quarter of 2021, Applied Materials, again, delivered record performance, capitalizing on strong, broad-based demand for our semiconductor products and services, while navigating a challenging supply environment. Over the past 18 months, the pandemic has accelerated the digital transformation of the economy and the adoption of advanced technology, creating a permanent structural shift for the industry. At the same time, COVID-19 has disrupted global supply chains in logistics. A transitory challenge will continue navigating over the coming quarters.

Across the Company I want to thank our teams for doing an incredible job to successfully overcome these near-term disruptions, provide outstanding support to customers and keep our R&D roadmap on track. In today's call, I'll focus on 3 main topics. First, I'll provide our perspective on the market, starting with our near-term outlook and then recapping our longer-term thesis. Second, I'll summarize the 3 pillars of Applied's growth strategy and third, I will explain how Applied is outperforming our markets today and is well-positioned to play an even bigger, broader, and more valuable role in the future.

I'll begin with our near-term outlook. Overall, there are no significant changes to our view of the market. Demand is strong and sustainable with customers making strategic investments to address long-term circular trends. In 2021, FoundryLogic is the fastest-growing wafer fab equipment market, and we believe it will represent more than 55% of total customer investment for the year. This spending is split relatively evenly between the leading edge, the 3 most advanced nodes in foundry and logic, and in technologies for IoT, communications, automotive, power electronics, and sensor applications, or what we call ICAPS. We expect DRAM spending to be the second-fastest-growing WFE market this year, and we see a positive setup for sustained investment in capacity and new technology.

Supply-side inventories remained below normal levels and long-term demand drivers are strong, fueled by memory-intensive AI computing. On an absolute basis, we expect NAND investments to be similar to DRAM for the year. We believe NAND inventories are at normal levels, both on the supply side and demand side. Looking further ahead, I strongly believe there has never been a more exciting time for semiconductor companies. We're only at the beginning of decade-long trends that will underpin secular industry growth. As I've said before, digital transformation is built on silicon and broadens the drivers for semiconductor innovation.

Demand for semiconductors is no longer about 1 or 2 killer applications, but rather an expansive structural shift in the economy towards digitization and automation. Smart and connected devices at the edge, not only consume more silicon, they are driving exponential growth in machine-generated data. To make sense and create value from the vast volumes of data available, new AI computing approaches are needed fueling further demand for current and next-generation semiconductors. While global consumption of silicon is accelerating, adoption rates of new technology vary considerably by region. As we showed in our investor meeting, we estimate that by 2025, China will have only reached the same levels of silicon spend per capita the U.S. saw in 2015.

And India trails China by another 8 to 10 years. Since the impact of digital transformation is so wide-reaching, national governments are increasingly recognizing the strategic importance of semiconductors. As government incentives become available in the U.S., Asia, and Europe, they can provide multi-year support as the industry moves from lean and just in time supply chains to more resilient, flexible, and secure approaches, including regionally distributed capacity. However, putting the right manufacturing infrastructure in place is only one piece of the puzzle. Investment in innovation infrastructure to lead in the development and commercialization of next-generation technologies is even more critical to winning the future.

Early access to superior semiconductor technologies, or what I refer to as winning the PPACt race will determine the countries and companies that thrive, and those that won't. At Applied, we have a strong point of view that the industry's future will not be like the past. And we've aligned our strategy and investments accordingly. Our strategy has 3 pillars. First and foremost, we are focused on being the PPACt enablement Company to provide the foundation for customers' power, performance, area, cost, and time to market roadmaps. We have the broadest and most enabling portfolio of process technologies that we can co-optimize and combine in unique and highly enabling ways.

Second, we're shifting more of our business to subscriptions, as we believe this model provides significant benefits to customers and for us. We have already converted a meaningful portion of our installed base business to recurring revenues and we are starting to monetize new products and services using subscription approaches. And third, we continue to optimize our portfolio of businesses that serve adjacent markets, including display, to drive profitable growth in higher free cash flows. This strategy is yielding results, and 2021, is shaping up to be a strong year of out-performance for Applied. Starting with our unit process tools, we are seeing a very strong demand for our leadership products.

For example, taking the midpoint of our fourth-quarter guidance, both our Epi and thermal businesses are on track to grow more than 70% this fiscal year. While CMP will grow more than 60% and implant more than 50%. We're also seeing our performance in our growth areas, especially process diagnostics and control, while we expect to grow more than 60% in calendar 2021. On top of this, we have strong momentum with our co-optimized and integrated solutions. By revenue, about 70% of the semiconductor products we sell today have already been co-optimized at some level. Co-optimization allows us to see and solve higher-value problems for customers, speed up technology transition to high-volume manufacturing, and make our solutions stickier.

Beyond co-optimization, our Integrated Material Solutions called the IMS, combine multiple processes with customized metrology and sensors in a single system, typically under vacuum. Our latest IMS product that lowers the interconnect resistance by 50% in advanced FoundryLogic directly addresses a multibillion-dollar opportunity over the next 5 years. With IMS, we can target the most complex and valuable challenges in the new PPACt playbook, and we have an exciting pipeline of new solutions, for both FoundryLogic and M. Another area we're seeing strong and sustainable growth, is our ICAPS business, which serves a broad spectrum of customers and applications in IoT, communications, automotive, power, and sensors.

Within ICAPS, demand for 28-nanometer and larger nodes is especially robust. Revenue from products serving these applications is expected to double this year. By acting early and forming a dedicated ICAPS team in 2019, we've been able to increase our focus on these customers and accelerate our share of this market. We're developing new products specifically designed for ICAPS markets, including integrated and co-optimized solutions. As a result, we're deepening our partnership and collaborations with these customers. For example, we recently signed a 5-year contract with a leading ICAPS customer designed to provide more assured supply for them and more predictable revenues for Applied.

Today, we are demonstrating strong momentum in our leadership and growth businesses, IMS and ICAPS. And as I look ahead, I'm confident our opportunities are even better. It's clear that advances in materials engineering are foundational to the industry's PPACt roadmap. The PPACt playbook has 5 key elements, new architectures, including workload-specific ICAPS and new memories, 3D structures, including gate all-around transistors, varied Power Rail and 3D DRAM, new materials for gate contact and interconnects, new geometric shrink, and advanced packaging. We believe that the relative contribution of these 5 elements to PPACt at future nodes is evolving in ways that create opportunities for Applied to play an even larger and more valuable role. Let's take advanced packaging as an example.

We identified this inflection early and began investing in differentiated technology years ago. Today, we enjoy a clear leadership position in advanced packaging equipment with more than 60% share of our served market. We will generate more than $800 million of revenue from our equipment business this year. And through a combination of organic R&D and strategic partnerships, we're also developing highly enabling future technologies. We are very excited about our opportunities and pipeline, and we'll share more details with you at our upcoming Packaging Master Class. Finally, when we talk to customers about PPACt, they consistently highlight the importance of t, time to market.

Time to market acceleration is a critical component of our PPACt enablement strategy. We've developed a proprietary suite of solutions to accelerate every stage of the product life cycle from R&D to technology transfer and high-volume manufacturing. Our actionable insight accelerator or AIx platform that we officially launched in May, brings together process tools, sensors, metrology, data analytics, and machine learning. We have strong momentum and are adding new installations at multiple leading customers. For example, Applied Pro is our process recipe optimizer within IX and is used to accelerate R&D qualification of individual chambers and tools, as well as enable larger process windows and higher chip yields.

Over the next 12 months, we expect to double the number of Applied Pro customer engagements from around 25 this year to more than 50. Before I hand the call over to Dan (ph), I'll quickly summarize. We see strong and sustainable demand for our semiconductor business underpinned by a wide range of positive macro and technology drivers. While COVID-related supply chain disruptions persist, our teams are doing a great job working through these challenges.

We believe Applied Materials will outperform our markets again this year, thanks to our strong portfolio of differentiated unit process tools for above leading edge, in ICAPS markets, combined with accelerating adoption of our IMS and advanced packaging products. As we look ahead, we're confident that the strength of longer-term secular trends, will drive semiconductor and wafer fab equipment markets structurally higher, and we believe Applied is in the best position to accelerate our customers, PPACt roadmaps, and grow significantly faster than our markets. Dan, over to you.

Dan Durn

Thanks, Gary. Today I'll begin by summarizing Applied's overall performance in Q3. Then I will discuss our semi-systems results, including new details about our FoundryLogic business. I'll also give you a number of metrics surrounding the large recurring revenue portion of Applied's Global Services segment. Then I'll add my perspective on the demand trends in our markets. And provide our guidance for Q4. Beginning with our Q3 performance, Applied generated the strongest revenue in Company history, with each of the segments exceeding guidance. We increased the gross margin to 48%, which is the highest in 14 years despite the ongoing cost headwinds related to COVID.

We also delivered the Company's highest-ever operating profit, operating margin, and earnings per share. Our results included record operating cash flow and record free cash flow of $1.5 billion. In fact, we've generated nearly 5 billion in cumulative free cash flow over the past 4 quarters. At the investor meeting in April, we made a long-term commitment to return 80% to 100% of free cash flow to shareholders. And in Q3, the buyback window was available to us for the full quarter. We repurchased $1.5 billion of Applied stock during the quarter and returned 111% of free cash flow to shareholders, including dividends. We ended the quarter with around $6.5 billion remaining in our share buyback authorization.

Given the secular growth trends in our end markets and our view of the intrinsic value of the Company, we expect to continue to be active in the market for our shares. Finally, last quarter, I mentioned that Moody upgraded Applied's credit rating to A2. I'm pleased that earlier this month, Standard and Poor also upgraded our rating from A - to A. Now I'll provide some insights into the strong performance of our semi systems business which generated its highest-ever revenue in Q3. Our demand is broad-based across foundry-logic and Memory, and within foundry-logic across a wide variety of nodes.

We're increasing our technology leadership in many areas, and that's being reflected in our operating margin, which crossed 40% for the first time. About half of our FoundryLogic revenue is being generated by our ICAPS business, which focuses on all but the 3 most leading nodes. Our ICAPS business has a large global presence and serves a very large number of customers throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. Many of the ICAPS applications have long product cycles, which generates lasting opportunities for us, both in equipment and services.

We have a high share, and the margins are accretive to the Company. We look forward to giving you more insights into the ICAPS markets and our strategies at the Master Class next month. Turning to Applied Global Services. We're building a solutions-based recurring revenue business that delivers predictable free cash flow across market cycles. Our segment reporting gives you good insights into the business. And I'll continue to help you with key performance indicators that demonstrate the unique qualities of the Applied services business, and the progress of our strategies.

From a segment reporting, you know that AGS delivered record revenue of $1.29 billion in Q3, up 24% year-over-year. 87% of AGS revenue was recurring services, parts, and software. The remaining amount was primarily legacy, 200-millimeter equipment. So Applied generated $1.1 billion in recurring revenue this quarter. This is by far the highest among our process peers and demonstrates our progress in generating lifetime value from the industry's largest installed base. Today, our semi-install base is just over 40,000 systems, and we have over 160,000 chambers in the field. At the investor meeting, we shared our goal to increase revenue per system by 20% between 2020 and 2024.

As of Q3, we're already halfway to achieving our goal. Now I'll put some metrics to our strategies for adding customer value to further grow our recurring revenue. Connecting the installed base to our AIx servers enables us to perform data-enabled services for our customers. Today, we have just over 4,300 connected tools, which is up over 30% from our 2020 baseline. We're also growing the number of secure remote connections, which allows us to connect our best experts to the installed base to perform remote analytics, diagnostics, and optimization from anywhere in the world. The number of remotely connected tools now exceeds 3,200, which is up over 36% from our 2020 baseline.

Another key focus is transitioning our recurring revenue to subscriptions in the form of long-term service agreements. Today, we're generating 60% of our recurring revenue from subscriptions, and our goal is to reach around 70% by 2024. We also have a subscription renewal rate of around 90%. Another sign of customer value is the tenure of the agreements across the entire base of subscription agreements. We've increased the tenure from 1.9 years at the end of 2020, to 2.2 years today. In fact, of our subscriptions booked in Q3, 77% were multi-year agreements.

We track all of these KPIs very closely. I hope they give you a good sense of the size and growth of our recurring revenue, and the strong customer pool we're generating by focusing on customer time to market, as well as cost output [Indiscernible]. Finally, another key metric we disclosed is the AGS segment operating margin, which provides a good indicator of the value our services bring to customers in Q3 across 30% for the first time in 15 years. Next, I'll add my perspective on the demand environment. While Q3 was a record quarter, we see further growth ahead.

In fact, our overall backlog is close to $10 billion with record levels in both semi systems and AGS and strength across all of our geographies. I still expect equipment spending to be higher in the second half of calendar 2021 for both FoundryLogic and DRAM. I expect WFE to be up in 2022 and I expect all of our reporting segments to be higher. Now I'll share our Q4 business outlook. We expect to increase Company revenue to approximately $6.325 billion, plus or minus 250 million or up around 35% year-on-year. We've widened the revenue range of this quarter because of near-term risks within our supply chain.

We expect non-GAAP EPS to be around $1.94 plus or minus $0.07 or up around 55% year-on-year. Within this outlook, we project semiconductor systems revenue of about $4.60 billion, up around 50% year-over-year. An AGS revenue of about $1.30 billion, up nearly 18% year-over-year. We expect display revenue to be around $400 million. Applied non - GAAP gross margin should be flat sequentially at 48%, or up around 230 basis points year-over-year. We plan to increase non - GAAP open to $960 million, which is around 15.2% of revenue and below our longer-term target of 16%.

Our guidance assumes a slightly higher non - GAAP tax rate of around 12.5%. In summary, I'm pleased that Applied delivered another record quarter of financial performance in Q3 with strong margins and free cash flow. The demand environment continues to be strong, and I'd like to join Gary (ph) in thanking all of our teams and partners for their hard work in a robust and challenging environment. Now Mike (ph), let's begin the Q&A.

Michael Sullivan

Thanks, Dan (ph). To help us reach as many people as we can, please ask just one question on today's call. If you have a second question, please just re-queue and we'll do our best to come back to you later in the session. Operator, let's please begin.

Question-and-Answer Session

Operator

[Operator Instructions] Please stand by while we compile the Q&A roster. Our first question comes from the line of C.J. Muse from Evercore. Your line is now open.

C.J. Muse

Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. Was hoping to dig a little bit deeper into your ICAP business. You talked about FoundryLogic being 55 plus percent of the mix this year in ICAP, perhaps half of that.

Did I hear that correctly? And as you think about the spending there, can you -- can you walk a little bit more detail around leadership versus growth penetration for you and how we should think about the sustainability of spending there into 2022, as well as the positive mix shift to gross margins. And then finally, as part of that, is there a subscription angle that's a greater part of the story there, given lagging edge, or no? Thanks so much.

Dan Durn

Hi C.J., this is Dan (ph.). I'll start and Gary (ph.) can jump in with some perspectives after I'm done. So, as we think about the ICAPS market and the setup around FoundryLogic, I think the contours you drew create the right perspective greater than 55% of WFE this year is FoundryLogic.

When we look into FoundryLogic and look at the leading edge versus ICAPS nodes, we're seeing the balance in those 2 markets. We had balance in those 2 markets in 2020, we've got balance again in 2021. So, we're really encouraged by the strength we're seeing across the entire [Indiscernible] profile and geometries within FoundryLogic.

We think we're incredibly well-positioned on the leading edge to drive key enabling technologies as the new playbook rolls out. We're equally well-suited in the ICAPS nodes, to drive those roadmaps going forward. Innovation is back across the entire node profile. As our customers pursue unique opportunities in IoT communications, auto power sensors, there are very unique technologies and capabilities that need to be driven as intelligence finds its way to the edge.

Those road maps are vibrant. We've got key enabling technologies that are driving really good market positions for us at attractive margins. So, we think we're really well set up to perform extremely well, as both of these sides of FoundryLogic profile going forward in a very balanced way, so we like how well we're positioned.

Gary Dickerson

Yeah. C.J. This is Gary (ph.). Thanks for the question. I think ICAPS, maybe some people would think is trailing technology nodes. But if you really think about the digitization of everything and this big inflection, People are talking about the future having 0.5 trillion or trillion connected devices at the edge, and certainly, as we talk to system companies that are deploying those eyes, and ears, and sensors, in all of those different applications that are transforming every industry, there needs to be a tremendous amount of innovation and power performance cost in both the chips and the packages.

So, we will cover this some more in the September 8th Master Class. But I would think about edge innovation. Certainly, in the cloud, you need high-performance to extract actionable insights. But that latency, power, cost, all of those things on the edge, that innovation is really important. And I think relative to sustainability, certainly, you can see the explosion of data, especially machine-generated data.

This market is very, very strong and we think as you go to a 1/2 trillion connected devices at the edge in the future, it's going to stay very strong. And as Dan talked about, we made a strategic change in our organization in 2019, pulling together key parts of our Company, 200-millimeter, 300-millimeter unit process innovation. We have some dynamite technologists focused on these markets. And again, we'll share more of that at our September 8th Master Class.

Michael Sullivan

Okay. Thank you, C.J... Operator, can we have the next question, please.

Operator

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research. Your line is now open.

Stacy Rasgon

Hi guys, thanks for taking my question. I had a question on -- on memory, First on DRAM. So obviously it grew pretty nicely sequentially in the quarter. And it sounds like you're still pretty positive though on the trajectory and its still below prior peak levels.

And given the strength of your positioning and everything you've talked about, is there may be any reason to believe that like whenever we hit DRAM peak, whenever that is, is there any reason to believe that that level wherever it is, shouldn't be higher, potentially significantly higher than where we saw the prior peak, which was several years ago.

And I think on the other piece of Memory, NAND, you talked about FoundryLogic and DRAM, you didn't really mention NAND at all. I know last quarter your views on NAND were a little more muted than the rest of it. Have your views on the trajectory of that market into the back half down ticked at all, versus where you were 3 months ago because one of your competitors down ticked a little bit.

Dan Durn

Yes. Thanks, Stacy. Let me take a crack at those questions and if I leave anything out, please follow up to make sure I hit all of the points that you put on the table. First, I think our view around WFE this year, there's very little change. We said it's now over 80 billion, we think it's a mid-30% grower, plus, minus, and embedded within that, we see strength across all device types.

Your fastest-growing; FoundryLogic, second-half-weighted, next fastest-growing; DRAM, second-half-weighted. Still see strong demand and pull from customers there, so we feel good about that. Last quarter, we put a question mark on the profile of NAND. Is it flat? Is it down a bit? We needed a bit more time to tell, I think we're still in that category.

I think there's a question mark. Is it flattish? Is it down a bit? So very little has changed in terms of the shape of the profile throughout the year. Taking a step back and taking a look at our DRAM progress, this is a business that we've had strong momentum in now for several years.

And as we take a look at the road map, we talk about increasing our opportunity node over a node, and that seems to be playing out in the market. Right now, you are adopting logic-like structures within the DRAM market in this place to a traditional source of strength for us. And so, we're playing a key enabling role for our customers, and you see that playing out in the most recent results. And we would expect that strength to continue through the back half of the year.

As we look into 2022, we do see the overall WFE market up year-over-year. We see continued strength in all 3 device types; FoundryLogic, DRAM, NAND. And so, we like how well we're positioned against that opportunity. And the way we see it right now, we're planning for all 3 of our reporting segments to be up year-over-year.

The concept of the peak is a really interesting one in this context; if we take a step back and look at the secular trends shaping this industry, we know industries are going through a digital transformation, increasingly going to drive adoption of semiconductors, and I'd say the demand for semiconductors 5 years from now is going to be greater than it is today, and certainly greater than it was 5 years ago. So, all of that is playing out nicely. What I would also say in the DRAM market, that your node over node shrinks is producing less bit growth than they have historically.

So, you're seeing capital intensity rise in that market. You're seeing Capital intensity rise in all device types frankly. But when I look at the investments our customers are making in this environment, and I compare it on a historical basis as a percent of profitability to what we've seen historically. You go back about a decade and the customers are spending more from a WFE standpoint, the WFE, as a percent of EBITDA, is down 40% over the last decade.

So, the monetization of these investments is greater today than it's ever been. We really like the long-term secular drivers around our industry. And while every year may not be a peak, the trend line is definitely up and we do think it leads to higher highs and higher lows as this industry continues to drive its road map, and deliver the power performance road map. We think we're incredibly well set up to perform really well as those trends play out.

Stacy Rasgon

That's helpful. Thank you.

Michael Sullivan

Thanks, Stacy(ph.).

Operator

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer (ph.) from Credit risk. Your line is now open.

John Pitzer

Yeah, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Gary (ph.), notwithstanding the comments you made in your prepared comments about how world governments have finally figured out how strategically important semi-production is. And we're going through a period of reg

