Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) Q2 2021 Results Conference Call April 28, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Tejas Gala - Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance
Tim Cook - Chief Executive Officer
Luca Maestri - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Shannon Cross - Cross Research
Amit Daryanani - Evercore
Katy Huberty - Morgan Stanley
Wamsi Mohan - Bank of America
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler
Krish Sankar - Cowen & Company
Kyle McNealy - Jefferies
David Vogt - UBS
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Apple Q2 FY 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to Tejas Gala, Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. Please go ahead.
Tejas Gala
Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts.
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, capital allocation and future business outlook, including the potential impact of COVID-19 on the Company's business results of operation. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or trends to differ materially from our forecast.
For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today, along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speak as of their respective dates.
I'd now like to turn over the call to Tim for introductory remarks.
Tim Cook
Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call today. Apple is proud to report another strong quarter, one where we set new March quarter records for both revenue and earnings, besting our year ago revenue performance by 54%.
Reflecting both the enduring ways our products have helped our users meet this moment in their own lives as well as the optimism consumers seem to feel about better days ahead, we set new March quarter records in every geographic segment, and success was broadly distributed across our product categories. Mac and Services delivered all-time record results, and we set new March quarter records for iPhone and Wearables, Home and Accessories.
To provide some color on our results, let's turn to our product categories. We saw a very strong performance for iPhone, which grew 66% year-over-year driven by the strong popularity of the iPhone 12 family. With unmatched 5G capability, the best camera system ever in an iPhone and advanced durability from ceramic shield, this family of devices is popular with both upgraders and new customers alike.
And just last week, we unveiled an all-new purple finish for iPhone 12 and 12 Mini. As has been the case throughout the pandemic, iPad and Mac continue to be critically important tools for our customers. Over the past year, tens of millions of iPads and Macs have been deployed to help students learn, creators create. and to enhance remote work in all of its forms. This has helped iPad grow very strong double digits to its highest March quarter revenue in nearly a decade.
On Mac, fueled by the M1, we set an all-time revenue record continuing the momentum for the product category. In fact, the last three quarters for Mac have been its three best quarters ever. Last week, both iPad and Mac took a big step forward. We debuted a radically redesigned brand-new iMac designed around M1's unmatched capabilities, and we've brought M1 to iPad for the first time in the new iPad Pro with 5G capability and a Liquid Retina XDR display.
It was a quarter of sustained strength for Wearables, Home and Accessories, which grew by 25% year-over-year. Apple Watch is a global success story, and the category set March quarter records in each geographic segment, thanks to strong performance from both Apple Watch Series 6 and Apple Watch SE.
It's an exciting and busy period ahead for Wearables, Home and Accessories with the launch of the next-generation Apple TV 4K and our newest accessory, AirTag. AirTag builds on the powerful and incredibly useful Find My experience, helping users privately and securely keep track of the items that matter most to them. Third-party accessories and products can also make use of the Find My network guaranteeing a great experience no matter what products you choose to use.
Turning to Services. We achieved growth of 27% year-over-year and set new records for services in each of our geographic segments. We continue to enhance and improve our current service offerings from Apple Music to Apple News while continuing to launch new services that enhance our customers' lives.
Just last week, we introduced Apple Card family which reinvents how you can share credit cards and build credit together. We also announced Apple Podcast subscriptions, a global marketplace for listeners to discover premium content from their favorite creators and storytellers. While we're on the topic of services, in many ways, this quarter showed the unique value to customers created by Apple's belief in the deep integration of hardware, software and services.
Across our products and throughout our software ecosystem, we continue to deploy industry-leading new tools to protect users' fundamental right to privacy. In addition to the App Store privacy nutrition labels that we discussed on last quarter's call, we're proud to have launched the full implementation of App Tracking Transparency. This powerful yet simple idea gives users a choice over how their data is used and shared across the apps that they love and use every day.
No matter what device you enjoy it from, it is a milestone period for Apple TV+, racking up many new award nominations and wins, including its first Oscar nominations. Ted Lasso, in particular, has been recognized with a multitude of awards and nominations including most recently, an AFI Program of the Year Recognition, Writers Guild of America Awards and a clean sweep at the Critics Choice Awards.
Apple TV+ also continues to be a place where we can tell stories that matter and lift up important voices and experiences like our new upcoming content partnership with Malala, our latest original documentary special, the Year the Earth changed narrated by the legendary David Attenborough and released to commemorate Earth Day. This is, of course, just one example of how Apple lives its values and operationalizes the idea that to whom much is given, much as expected.
To begin with our environmental efforts, just last week, we marked a milestone Earth Day on multiple fronts. In addition to the progress we've made in our own efforts to achieve our pledge of a net zero carbon footprint by 2030 across our entire supply chain and use of our products, we're proud to play a role in the growing ripple change taking place across the private sector.
As of this month, 110 of our suppliers have joined us in our renewable energy commitment, and we will bring online nearly 8 gigawatts of new clean energy, the equivalent of taking 3.4 million gas-powered vehicles off the road each year. Through Apple's $4.7 billion in green bonds and related efforts, we've supported transformative environmental projects around the world from clean energy initiatives in China to two of the world's largest onshore wind turbines in Denmark to 180-acre solar project outside Reno, Nevada and many more.
We're also keenly focused on how this wave of green innovation can lead to equitably shared prosperity. Through our new $200 million restore fund, we're helping local and rural communities around the world, build sustainable industries around working for us creating opportunities and removing up to 1 million metric tons of carbon from the atmosphere every year. And here in the United States, we started a green impact accelerator, investing and supporting minority-owned businesses at the forefront of environmental fields.
As we look forward to WWDC, we're taking new steps to support and foster the unmatched community of developers we work with here in the United States and around the world. I'm particularly excited about our inaugural entrepreneur camp for black to founders and developers. Building on the success of our entrepreneur camp program, which we began in 2019, this program gives this profoundly innovative community of developers the chance to develop next-level technical skills through hands-on technology labs, and with our partners at Harlan Capital, it also shares insights and mentorship on building and scaling an app business.
We were proud to announce that we have expanded and accelerated our commitment to the U.S. economy. Over the next five years, we will invest $430 billion, creating 20,000 jobs in the process. The investments will support American innovation and drive economic benefits in every state, including a new North Carolina campus and job creating investments in innovative fields like silicon engineering and 5G technology.
Looking forward, whether you're running a business or just hoping to see family again after more than a year, it's tempting at this moment to let hope about the end of the COVID-19 pandemic outstripped clear-eyed realism about the challenges we still face. In many places around the world, new waves of infections driven by even more infectious variants of the virus are driving new lockdowns. Instead of simply assuming that the end is in sight, we at Apple are doing our part to make it a reality.
Beginning with an enduring and uncompromising commitment to the health and safety of our teams, and extending well beyond our walls into the communities where we work. We also want to do everything we can to connect users to life-saving vaccinations that are in ever greater supply. Through Apple Maps, for example, we now showcase vaccine site locations here in the United States, building on our maps of testing locations in many countries around the world.
It's worth remembering for much more than financial reasons or year-ago compares, just how we felt at this time last year when everything we knew had to change. Plains set grounded, entire business districts were empty and silent. People left groceries or care packages sitting in the garage or in the hall overnight in recognition of all that we didn't know and therefore, had to imagine.
Thanks to researchers and scientists, doctors and nurses, everyone who can put a shot in an arm and even just check a name off a list. We have reached new days of hopeful resolve. Our work is not done, but as I said a year ago, while we can't say for sure how many chapters are in this book, we can have confidence that the ending will be a good one.
With that, I'll hand things over to Luca.
Luca Maestri
Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We are extremely pleased to report record results for our March quarter despite continued uncertainty in the macro environment. We've been operating in new ways for over a year, and we could not be more proud of the way our team continues to execute and innovate at unprecedented levels.
Our revenue reached a March quarter record of $89.6 billion, an increase of over $31 billion or 54% from a year ago. We grew very strong double digits in each of our product categories, with all-time records for Mac and for Services and March quarter records for iPhone and for Wearables, Home and Accessories. We also set new March quarter records in every geographic segment with growth of at least 35% in each one of them.
Products revenue was a March quarter record of $72.7 billion, up 62% over a year ago. As a result of this level of sales performance and the unmatched loyalty of our customers, our installed base of active devices reached a new all-time record in each of our major product categories. Our services set an all-time record of $16.9 billion, growing 27% over a year ago. We established new records in each geographic segment and in most service categories. I will provide more details about the performance of our services business later.
Company gross margin was 42.5%, up 270 basis points from last quarter driven by cost savings, a strong mix and favorable foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 36.1%, growing 100 basis points sequentially also thanks to cost savings and FX, partially offset by seasonal loss of leverage. Services gross margin was 70.1%, up 170 basis points sequentially and mainly due to a different mix. Net income of $23.6 billion, diluted earnings per share of $1.40 and operating cash flow of $24 billion were all March quarter records by a wide margin.
Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenues had a March quarter record of $47.9 billion, growing 66% year-over-year as the iPhone 12 family continue to be in high demand. Performance was consistently strong across the world as we grew strong double digits in each geographic segment and set March quarter records in most markets we track. Thanks to the exceptional loyalty of our customer base and strength of our ecosystem, our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high. In the U.S. the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates customer satisfaction of over 99% for the iPhone 12 family.
Turning to Services. We reached an all-time revenue record of $16.9 billion with all-time records for the App Store, cloud services, music, video, advertising and payment services. Our new service offerings, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News Fitness+ as well as the Apple One bundle, continue to scale across users, content and features and are contributing to overall services growth. The key drivers for our services business all continue to move in the right direction.
First, our installed base growth has accelerated and reach an all-time high across each major product category. Second, the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the March quarter, with paid accounts increasing double digits in each of our geographic segments. Third, paid subscriptions continued to show strong growth. During the March quarter, we added more than 40 million paid subs sequentially, and we have now reached more than 660 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform. This is up $145 million from just a year ago and twice the number of paid subscriptions we are only 2.5 years ago.
Finally, we're adding new services that we think our customers will love, while also continuing to improve the breadth and quality of our current service offerings. For example, Apple Arcade launched its biggest expansion yet adding incredibly fun games to the catalog, including new exclusive Arcade originals, along with two entirely new categories, App Store greats and timeless classics. Apple Pay continues to expand geographically, launching in Mexico and in South Africa, bringing our payment service to six continents.
Wearables, Home and Accessories grew 25% year-over-year to $7.8 billion, setting new March quarter revenue records in every geographic segment. Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with nearly 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. We're very excited about the future of this category and believe that our integration of hardware, software and services uniquely positions us to provide great customer experiences in this category.
Next, I'd like to talk about Mac. We set an all-time revenue record of $9.1 billion, up 70% over last year, and grew very strongly in each geographic segment with all-time revenue records in Europe and rest of Asia Pacific and March quarter records in the Americas, Greater China and Japan. This amazing performance was driven by the very enthusiastic customer response to our new Macs powered by the M1 chip.
iPad performance was also outstanding with revenue of $7.8 billion up 79%. We grew very strongly in every geographic segment with an all-time record in Japan and a March quarter record in rest of Asia Pacific.
Both Mac and iPad are incredibly relevant products for our customers in the current working and learning environments, and we are delighted that the most recent surveys of U.S. consumers from 451 Research measured customer satisfaction at 91% for Mac and 94% for iPad. With this level of customer satisfaction, and with around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter being new to that product, the active installed base for both products continues to grow nicely and reached new all-time highs.
In the enterprise market, customers across many industries are accelerating their adoption of iPhone 12 and 5G as a key platform for the future of their business. Delta Airlines, for example, is putting iPhone 12 and 5G connectivity into the hands of flight attendants so they can provide the best passenger service possible as air travel rebounds.
Openreach in the U.K. has started equipping tens of thousands of field engineers with iPhone 12 to speed up their deployment of broadband services to homes around the country. And UCHealth, a large health care provider in Colorado, was able to reduce per patient vaccination time from 3 minutes to only 30 seconds largely by moving from PC stations to iPhones. This has allowed their staff to rapidly scan and register new patients and vastly increase their daily vaccination capacity.
Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with over $204 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We issued $14 billion of new term debt and retired $3.5 billion of term debt leaving us with total debt of almost $122 billion. As a result, net cash was $83 billion at the end of the quarter.
This strong position allows us to continue to invest confidently in our future, while also returning value to our shareholders. We are innovating and investing at an unprecedented pace, including accelerating our investment in the United States with our new commitment to contribute more than $430 billion and 20,000 jobs to the country over the next five years.
As we continue to execute at an extremely high level, we were also able to return nearly $23 billion to shareholders during the March quarter. This included $3.4 billion in dividends and equivalents and $19 billion through open market repurchases of 147 million Apple shares. We continue to believe there is great value in our stock and maintain our target of reaching a net cash neutral position over time.
Given the confidence we have in our business today and into the future, our Board has authorized an additional $90 billion for share repurchases. We're also raising our dividend by 7% to $0.22 per share, and we continue to plan for annual increases in the dividend going forward.
As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance, but we are sharing some directional insights assuming that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are seeing today for the current quarter.
We expect our June quarter revenue to grow strong double digits year-over-year. However, we believe that the sequential revenue decline from the March quarter to the June quarter will be greater than in prior years for two reasons. First, keep in mind that due to the later launch timing and strong demand, iPhone only achieved supply-demand balance during the March quarter. This will cause a steeper sequential decline than usual. Second, we believe supply constraints will have a revenue impact of $3 billion to $4 billion in the June quarter.
We expect gross margin to be between 41.5% and 42.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $11.1 billion and $11.3 billion. We expect OI&E to be around $50 million and our tax rate to be around 14.5%. Finally, reflecting the approved 7% dividend increase I just mentioned, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock payable on May 13, 2021, to shareholders of record as of May 10, 2021.
With that, let's open the call to questions.
Tejas Gala
Thank you, Luca. [Operator Instructions] Operator, may we have the first question, please?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Shannon Cross with Cross Research. Please go ahead.
Shannon Cross
Tim, I had sort of a big picture question on iPhone. I'm just curious, there are so many different things happening in this cycle, 5G, pandemic. How are you thinking about the opportunity for refreshing the installed base and attracting new customers? And are you seeing lives shorten given some of the programs that are being put out there by the carriers and by yourself? Just kind of maybe big picture, if you can talk about what you're seeing in terms of iPhone out there in the market.
Tim Cook
Sure, Shannon. We saw double-digit increases on a year-over-year basis on both the new to iPhone and upgraders. So -- and in fact, in the March quarter, there was actually a record number of upgraders for a March quarter. And so we like what we see. It's obviously the early days of 5G. Different countries are in different points. But penetration is still -- on a global level, is still low at this point. And so a lot of the 5G upgrades will be in front of us, not behind us. You see in China, things have moved quickly to 5G. They're moving quickly in the United States. But a lot of the other regions are slower to adopt and slower to gain coverage in 5G.
Shannon Cross
Okay. And then, Luca, can you talk about gross margin? I mean 42% is higher than it's been that I can kind of remember actually at this point, so maybe if you talk about the drivers of gross margin, and maybe if there were any offsets from higher component costs or the logistics costs that obviously were overshadowed by currency and other things?
Luca Maestri
Yes, Shannon. Yes, we did 42.5% during March, and we've guided to similar, slightly lower levels for June. So for March, we were up 270 basis points sequentially, really driven by three major factors. Cost savings, which has been good for us during the cycle. A really strong mix, a strong mix on iPhone, but in general, across all product categories, and that obviously was helpful. And foreign exchange sequentially, again, from December to March, was favorable 90 basis points. So that helped as well. So those are the three major factors there. As we transition into June, as you know, that we will expect some level of deleverage but that will be offset by cost savings. Foreign exchange doesn't have much of an impact as we go from March to June.
Operator
We'll now take our next question from Amit Daryanani with Evercore. Please go ahead.
Amit Daryanani
I have two as well. First one, just on services, I think 90 days ago, the expectation was that line item would decelerate a little bit into the March quarter. It turned out it actually accelerated for us. I'd like to just understand what do you think drove that acceleration specifically? And is mid-20% sort of the growth norm as we go forward for Services?
Luca Maestri
So Amit, the -- our Services business did better than what we were expecting when we had the last call in January. It was stronger across the board. One of the things that we've noticed is that throughout COVID was that obviously digital services have done very well. And then we've had a couple of categories like Apple Care because many of the points of sale and stores were closed and advertising because of the reduced economic activity that were negatively affected during COVID.
During the March quarter, we've seen a return to growth on Apple Care and obviously, we've reopened a lot of the stores during the course of the quarter. And advertising, obviously, consumer sentiment has improved and advertising is coming back. And so the combination of these factors really delivered this very, very strong performance during the March quarter. As we look ahead, as you know, we don't provide specific guidance for our product categories.
But in general, I talked during our prepared remarks, I mean, there are a number of things that we always look at around the Services business, how many new paid accounts do we have, what number of new subscriptions do we get that -- above all, is our installed base continuing to grow. Are we adding new services? Are we improving the quality of the existing services? And so when we look at all these fundamental vectors of our Services business, obviously, we feel very good. We feel very good about it.
Amit Daryanani
Got it. That's helpful. And then, Tim, if I could follow up with you, it seems like engagement with iPhones and Apple devices generally has gone up materially over the last 12 months. And I don't think replacement cycles, at least in the data we see, has shrunk or changed that much at the end of the day. I'm wondering, does that combination of increased usage, replacement cycles haven't changed, end up in iPhones potentially growing on a multiyear basis because I would imagine if I'm using something more I have to replace it more often. So I'd love your perspective on it.
Tim Cook
Yes. We're clearly seeing strong performance in both the new to iPhone or the switcher component and upgraders, as I'd mentioned before. And in fact, the upgrader was the best March quarter that we've ever had in -- and so that speaks to what you're seeing, I think, a lot. It's difficult with just this far into the cycle to make a statement about the cycle in general because keep in mind that we just launched midway through the Q1 period. And so we've only been operating for 4.5 months or so.
But clearly, we like what we see right now a lot. If you look at how the iPhone did around the world, we had the top five models of smartphone in the U.S., the top selling, the top two in urban China, four out of the top five in Japan, the top four in the U.K. and the top six in Australia. And so it was a sort of across the board in some really key countries, we did really, really well. I do think that the 5G cycle is important. And we're in the early days of it, frankly.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Katy Huberty from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Katy Huberty
This was a pretty unbelievable quarter, and investors are going to ask about the sustainability of current demand trends, especially as you lap some of the benefits from COVID in areas like services and Mac later this year. So I know you don't guide beyond or provide an outlook beyond the next quarter. But can you talk from a high level over the next year, which segments do you see the opportunity to maintain strong revenue growth versus where is it reasonable to assume there will be some digestion as consumers shift their spending priorities? And then I have a follow-up for Luca.
Tim Cook
If you sort of look at the different products, iPhone, I've already mentioned some of the great momentum that we had there. Keep in mind that the compare that we're running to would be the quarter, the Q2 of last year is the quarter that China would have entered a shutdown first and then the rest of the world entered the shutdown in middle part of March.
And so part of the growth is compared -- is the comparison point. But that said, the results were fabulous across the board. The shortages that Luca spoke about in the color that he provided on the future, affect primarily the iPad and the Mac. And so we'll have some challenges in there, and challenges in meeting the demand that we've got.
The demand feels very strong right now. Both on the Mac side, you have the combination of M1 and work from home and remote learning. And then iPad, you've got remote learning and work from home as well. And the product that we just announced is really killer, the iPad Pro with the M1 in it. And so there's a lot of great things of the strength of the product cycle in addition to the trends that we're seeing in the marketplace.
And where this pandemic will end, it seems like many companies will be operating in a hybrid kind of mode. And so it would seem that work from home and the productivity of working from home will remain very critical.
If you look at Wearables then, the watch had a fabulous quarter. And I still think we're in the early innings on the watch. The number of new -- people that are new to the watch is almost three out of four. And so this is a long way from being a mature market. And so -- and then the Services by itself has really accelerated. And so all in all, we feel very, very good.
Katy Huberty
And then, Luca, as I look at inventory plus vendor nontrade receivables, that grew only about 8% this quarter which is a big deceleration from last quarter. Should we read into that as a leading indicator for how we should think about the re