Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMAT) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call February 18, 2021  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Michael Sullivan - Corporate Vice President
Gary Dickerson - President and Chief Executive Officer
Dan Durn - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
C.J. Muse - Evercore
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Atif Malik - Citi
Krish Sankar - Cowen & Company
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Quinn Bolton - Needham & Company
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Joe Quatrochi - Wells Fargo
Mitch Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Patrick Ho - Stifel
Operator
Welcome to the Applied Materials Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, you will be invited to participate in a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President. Please go ahead, sir.
Michael Sullivan
Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining Applied's First Quarter of Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me are Gary Dickerson, our President and CEO; and Dan Durn, our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ. Information concerning the risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied's most recent Form 10-Q and 8-K filings with the SEC.
Today's call also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to GAAP measures are found in today's earnings press release and in our quarterly earnings materials, which are available on the IR page of our website at appliedmaterials.com.
Before we begin, I have a calendar announcement. On April 6, Applied plans to host a virtual investor meeting to discuss our markets, strategies and financial targets. We hope you'll save the date.
And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Gary Dickerson.
Gary Dickerson
Thanks, Mike. I'm very pleased to report another quarter of record performance for Applied Materials. Since the beginning of our fiscal year, we've seen a continued acceleration of demand in our semiconductor business as major macro and industry trends, fuel increasing consumption of silicon across a wide range of markets and applications.
2020 was an excellent year for Applied as we outperformed our markets, while growing our earnings nearly twice as fast as revenue. We carry this strong momentum into 2021. Our broad portfolio and exposure to technology inflections, combined with the traction of our new products, put us in a great position to substantially outgrow our markets, again this year and into the future.
I want to thank our employees and suppliers for everything they are doing to deliver for our customers and shareholders. Our operations and field teams are doing an incredible job, as we run the company at record levels and successfully overcome significant logistics and other challenges created by the pandemic.
In R&D, our teams are working in new ways to accelerate the time to market of critical innovations for our customers and we're doing all of this, while maintaining a relentless focus on keeping our colleagues and families safe.
As Mike outlined, we plan to hold an investor meeting in early April. At that event, we will provide our in-depth analysis of the major growth drivers and inflections that will shape our markets over the next 5 to 10 years and describe our strategy to deliver innovative new technologies to enable our customers' power performance and cost road maps, accelerate their time to market and drive Applied's long-term profitable growth.
In today's call, I will focus my comments on the near-term, first, covering the dynamics we currently see in the market and then highlighting some of our recent accomplishments that illustrate the momentum we have across the business.
Starting with a high-level view of our markets, we are seeing a diverse combination of macro and technology factors, fueling very strong and sustainable demand for semiconductors. As the world continues to navigate the current challenges and prepares for a post-pandemic era, the digital transformation of the economy is being accelerated.
Companies are rethinking and reengineering the way they operate and there's an immense pull for advanced technology. In addition, consumers are making different choices about the way they spend their time, and the products and services they buy.
I strongly believe many of the changes we're seeing today are irreversible, since new ways of working offer compelling advantages in terms of time and productivity. Within the electronics ecosystem itself, key technology inflections are driving increasing silicon consumption.
I'll highlight three examples. Cloud service providers are forecasting data center CapEx growth of more than 15% this year on top of record spending in 2020. With the broader adoption of 5G handsets, silicon content in smartphones is growing at double-digit rates. And in automotive, where there are known supply shortfalls, total semi consumption is expected to expand more than 15% this year, translating these factors to industry investments.
In foundry/logic, leading-edge investments are very strong and have been well articulated by our customers. On top of that, our ICAPS business that serves the IoT, communications, auto, power and sensor markets is expected to grow even faster and is on track to exceed $3 billion of revenue for the fiscal year. And then, 2020 was a strong recovery year, with spending up more than 30%. And in 2021, we expect customers to invest at modestly higher levels.
In DRAM, supply-demand fundamentals look more favorable than NAND. And as a result, we still expect DRAM investments to outgrow NAND this year. All of this adds up to a very strong demand environment for wafer fab equipment and we believe this strength is sustainable well beyond 2021.
Digital transformation touches every sector of the economy and is nondiscretionary for many industries. In addition, industry investments appear disciplined. When you look at wafer fab equipment intensities, that's wafer fab equipment revenues as a percentage of semiconductor industry revenues, they are well below recent peaks in all three of the device segments: foundry/logic, NAND and DRAM.
Turning to Applied's business performance. Our Semiconductor Systems revenues for the first fiscal quarter were up 26% compared to the same period last year. At the midpoint of our Q2 guidance, Semi Systems will be up around 50% year-on-year. And based on our current outlook, we expect to again grow faster than the market for the year as a whole.
There are a number of factors contributing to this outstanding performance. First, our business is very well balanced across devices and customers. Second, we have the broadest portfolio of products and capabilities, spanning materials creation, modification, removal and analysis. These technologies, combined with our ability to connect them in unique ways, are fundamental to enabling our customers' power, performance and cost road maps.
And third, we have an incredible pipeline of new products and integrated solutions that are winning applications, expanding our served opportunities and reducing the time it takes our customers to bring important new innovations to market. Node-over-node opportunity growth in both foundry/logic and memory favors Applied's leadership businesses, including epi, thermal processing, CMP and PVD. In fact, we believe our PVD business can grow more than 40% this year and generate more than $3 billion of revenue.
Our latest-generation products have strong momentum and more than 25% of our 2021 revenues will come from critical applications that we've targeted and won since 2018. Some highlights include: CVD, where we grew revenues 30% in 2020 and have strong customer pull for new differentiated material solutions that are highly enabling for advanced patterning; conductor etch, where we're winning new applications in DRAM and foundry/logic that contributed to our 32% revenue growth in this market last year; process diagnostics and control, where we believe we can grow more than 25% this fiscal year on top of the 45% growth we delivered in 2020, thanks to new optical wafer inspection and e-beam products that are still in the early stages of adoption; in packaging, where we expect revenues to be up 50% year-on-year on top of strong growth in 2020.
Also, over the past few years we've started introducing a new class of highly differentiated products that we call Integrated Materials Solutions or IMS. Our IMS products can combine multiple process technologies with onboard metrology and sensors within a single system that are capable of enabling unique films, structures and devices. We have numerous IMS engagements with our leading customers. And this year we will generate meaningful revenues from our initial IMS products.
Moving to service. AGS delivered another record quarter. Over the past five years, we've grown our services business at a compound annual growth rate of 12%, which is twice as fast as our installed base growth. In this period, we've increased the percentage of service and parts revenue generated by service agreements from around 40% to more than 60%. These long-term agreements enable us to deliver more value to customers with our advanced service products, while providing us with stickier and more predictable recurring revenue streams. Our renewal rates for these agreements are also very high at over 90%. 
Finally, in display. Our outlook remains consistent with the view we shared in November. We expect 2021 revenues to be similar to 2020 as we continue to manage through the current market trough. We do see encouraging leading indicators of future growth including higher OLED adoption in the smartphone market with the vast majority of 5G handsets being equipped with OLED screens and increasing OLED consumption beyond phones in TVs and IT applications. We still believe OLED is a compelling technology and this inflection is a great catalyst for the display market that will create expanded opportunities for Applied. 
Before I hand the call over to Dan, I want to again thank all our employees for their outstanding contributions to Applied's success. 2021 is off to a great start with record results and outlook. We see strong and sustainable demand in our semiconductor business fueled by a combination of macro and technology drivers. We have great momentum thanks to our broad market exposure and differentiated portfolio of new products. And we believe we're in a great position to outperform our markets again this year.
Finally, we're looking forward to sharing our long-term vision for the industry and Applied Materials at our investor event in April. Now Dan will give his perspective on the business environment and provide more color on our financial results and operational performance. Dan? 
Dan Durn
Thanks, Gary. Today I'll begin by summarizing Applied's performance in Q1 and then I'll share some of the key drivers of our growth relative to the markets in calendar 2020 and I'll finish with our guidance for Q2. 
Beginning with our Q1 performance. Applied delivered record revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share. We grew revenue by 24% year-over-year and exceeded the high end of our guidance. I'm pleased that we increased gross margin by around 100 basis points year-over-year, particularly since we are still experiencing COVID-related manufacturing protocols and logistics costs. 
We also generated record non-GAAP operating profit of nearly $1.5 billion, which was up 40% year-over-year. We increased non-GAAP EPS by 42% year-over-year to $1.39. 
Our teams operated with discipline and this enabled Applied to deliver record free cash flow of $1.3 billion, which was up 47% year-over-year. We increased cash and investments on the balance sheet by nearly $950 million to $8.22 billion as we await the regulatory decision for the Kokusai Electric transaction. I look forward to updating you on our capital allocation plans when we get together for the investor meeting in April. 
Turning to the segments. Our Semi Systems group increased revenue by 26% year-over-year including new quarterly records in Etch, metal deposition and CMP. Operating margin grew by 320 basis points year-over-year. Applied Global Services also delivered revenue above our expectations, while reporting its highest operating margin over the past two years despite ongoing challenges related to COVID. 
The display group exceeded its revenue target and increased operating margin by 590 basis points year-over-year. Looking ahead, our demand outlook calls for growth. We currently expect all three of our segments to post higher revenue in the second-half of our fiscal year. 
Next I'll comment on our semiconductor equipment revenue performance in calendar 2020, which is equal to our Q2 of fiscal 2020 through Q1 of fiscal 2021. As I previewed on our November earnings call, 2020 was a memory growth year in which NAND equipment spending grew at nearly twice the rate of the overall market. DRAM customer spending also grew faster than the market and foundry/logic investments grew slower than the overall market, but still accounted for over 55% of total spending. 
Applied has balanced share and our revenue profile resembled the overall mix with our highest growth in NAND at 34%. We grew by 27% in DRAM and 23% in foundry/logic and we believe we significantly outperformed in both of these end markets. 
Within the semi systems group our growth was strongest in areas where we've made significant investments to drive the new playbook, to develop integrated material solutions for our customers and introduce new products where we have significant room to gain share. One of our fastest-growth areas was in advance packaging, where we have the industry's broadest portfolio and by far the highest share. As Gary said, we expect this momentum to continue into 2021.
Our dollar growth was highest in CVD and etch, which reflects the success we've had co-optimizing new CVD films with our Sym3 etch system to create unique patterning solutions across 3D NAND, DRAM and foundry-logic.
Among new products, our latest optical wafer inspection system grew by 44% in 2020, achieving over $400 million in cumulative revenue. We'll officially introduce the new system in the near future to explain its unique architectural features, along with breakthrough AI capabilities, that are generating strong customer pull.
Turning to calendar 2021. We expect strong foundry-logic spending to continue. We also expect DRAM spending to grow at a faster pace than NAND. This 2021 mix expectation plays particularly well to Applied's technology innovations and strong product roadmap.
Now I'll share our Q2 business outlook. We expect company revenue to be approximately $5.39 billion plus or minus $200 million. The midpoint would be up about 36% year-over-year. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be about $1.50 plus or minus $0.06 or up about 70% year-over-year.
Within this outlook, we project Semiconductor Systems revenue of $3.85 billion, up around 50% year-over-year and AGS revenue of about $1.14 billion, up around 12% year-over-year. These forecasts do not include any revenue from shipments that still require government licenses. We expect Display revenue of around $370 million, with growth resuming in the second-half.
We expect Applied's non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 47%, or up around 240 basis points year-over-year and we expect non-GAAP OpEx to increase to $890 million. Our Q2 guidance assumes a non-GAAP tax rate of 12% to 13% and a weighted average share count of around 929 million.
In summary, I'm pleased that Applied delivered another quarter of record performance in Q1, with strong year-over-year growth in revenue and profitability. I'd like to join Gary in thanking our teams for supporting our customers under challenging circumstances and operating with discipline to generate higher margins and free cash flow. Execution by our employees has been and continues to be nothing short of superb in what is still a challenging COVID environment. We look forward to giving you more insights into our markets and our company's growth plans at the investor meeting in April.
Now Mike let's begin the Q&A.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks, Dan. Now to help us reach as many people as we can, please ask just one question on today’s call. If you have a second question, please just requeue and we will do our best to come back you later in the session. Operator, let’s please begin.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of C.J. Muse with Evercore. Your line is now open.
C.J. Muse
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess, if you look back to 2020, it looks like you outperformed WFE by about 8 percentage points. And obviously, you talked about favorable mix coming into 2021 led by foundry and DRAM as well as I assume your strong position on the legacy side. So curious if you can kind of speak to what kind of outperformance we should be thinking about relative to WFE in 2021, and if you can point to the particular drivers that we should be focused on? Thank you.
Dan Durn
Yes. Thanks, C.J. So in 2020, if we say the markets around $60 billion in 2020, and I would say, it's up a little more than 16% against that backdrop. If you look at our Semi Systems segment, we grew our Semi Systems segment revenue by 26.5%, so significant outperformance as you've called out.
As we look at the drivers in 2020 foundry/logic grew below the industry average. It was really a memory-driven growth year; NAND about 2x; DRAM a little more than the industry average. So the company performed really well in that environment.
As you go to 2021, we view the spend mix to be a more favorable environment for us as a company. Foundry/logic will continue to be strong in 2021. We see DRAM outgrowing NAND. And so against that more favorable spend mix, we would expect to significantly outperform the market again this year. So we feel really good about how we're positioned against the market opportunity. We've got robust end markets and strong product momentum within those end markets so we feel good.
And then as we look beyond 2021, we see from an overall market standpoint and a company-specific momentum standpoint, we see continued strong performance into 2022. So, again, we like how well we're positioned. 2021 is a more favorable mix and I would expect us to significantly outperform again.
Gary Dickerson 
Yes. C.J., this is Gary. Thanks for the question. I'll give a little bit more color relative to our specific opportunities. If you look at the industry overall, certainly, technology is transforming every aspect of our lives. That's driving the overall business sustainably higher. And at the same time, we've talked about 2D scaling coming to an end.
So really -- and you can even see in recent meetings with some of our largest customers where they're publicly talking about the road map going forward around new chip architectures, new structures, new materials, new ways to connect chips together, design technology co-optimization, again around certain structures and materials.
And so that's really where we're focused. And when you think about what's going to enable the future, it really is about new structures, new materials. We talked about packaging up 50% new ways to connect chips together. And we're just in a sweet spot relative to the technologies we have.
When you think about creating those new structures and new materials, PVD is a big driver for us. Our epi business is going to be very strong this year. The thermal processing CVD all of those areas are very strong. Etch, we're continuing to win. And when you think about shaping those structures, our Selectra product is a leader in the industry, creating and shaping those structures, and then the modification with CMP and implant.
And then in PDC, as I talked about in the prepared remarks, that business is growing for us. So I can certainly give more color later on the call on that. But again, we're just in a really great position. When you think about what's going to enable the future inflections and the power and performance for the infrastructure going forward, we've never been in a better position.
Dan Durn
And C.J. maybe one more point to add to what Gary is saying. And as I went through the profile of spend one data point I left out was the aggregate size of the market in 2021. I think we'll have more to say in a point-specific way around overall WFE size in 2021 and beyond at the investor meeting coming up here in about six weeks. But if the overall industry consensus today, is call it, high 60s, $70 billion, I'd say our view is a bit higher than that as we sit here today.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks, C.J. 
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
John Pitzer 
Yes, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the questions and congratulations on the solid results and guide. Dan, it's probably not all that surprising that half-on-half growth is expected both in services and display. But in the Semi System businesses, that's a little bit different than kind of the tone that some of your peers have talked about with kind of a first-half weighting of WFE. And it might be explained by your last comment to C.J.'s question about having a little bit higher view on overall WFE.
But I'm kind of curious given that your fiscal year doesn't match up with the calendar year, do you think on a calendar year basis that we're going to have a stronger second-half than first-half? And just relative to your fiscal year commentary, what gives you the bottoms-up confidence of half-on-half growth specifically in the Semi Systems business?
Dan Durn
Yes. Sure John. Thanks for the question. Let me try to unpack it a little bit, so we can talk about sort of what we're seeing in our business versus maybe what others see in theirs. So, I guess, the first thing I'd point to is, we've got very broad end-market exposure. We're very balanced across all three device types; foundry/logic, NAND, DRAM really strong positions in each of those end markets. But within those markets, we've got product breadth and momentum around a number of our businesses. So we've got more balanced end-market exposure than, say, some who are more narrowly focused.
Second thing, I'd point to and this ties into the answer I just gave to C.J.'s question, we've got a more favorable mix setup in 2021 with foundry/logic continuing to be strong, DRAM outgrowing NAND. So I think that serves us well for continued and significant outperformance. And then we talked about carrying the momentum, both from a market and product standpoint into 2022. So I feel good about how that transition looks.
And then lastly, as you rightfully pointed out, within the fiscal year, we see back-half momentum with each of our respective reporting segments. So again, where we sit today, we think we're really well set up for strong performance throughout the year.
Michael Sullivan
Thank you, John.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya with Bank of America. Your line is now open.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. For either Gary or Dan, there's a lot of talk of chip shortages these days. Do you think this $70 billion WFE for the industry is sufficient to address these shortages? Or can the WFE number be higher? Or do you think that this actually could push out some of the demand into next year as well before the shortages are fully met? Thank you.
Dan Durn
Yes. So, a couple of things on that, Vivek. First of all, our number for the aggregate size in 2021, we weren't point-specific, but we're a little higher than where the -- a bit higher than where the industry consensus is.
I do think there's good strong positive momentum. I think the capacity our customers put in place is around multi-year demand statements. To make these investments make sense over the long run, drive a return on those investments, there has to be a substantive not a transitorial demand statement that sits behind those investments our customers make. And so we do think there's a bit of catch-up spend.
When you think about shortages in the auto industry, we think that's going to be a good end market. But I don't think that market in and of itself is sufficiently large to drive the types of demand that we're talking about in the current environment. So then we look at greater than $70 billion in 2021. The demand statement that sits behind that, it's diverse. It's broad. All the respective end markets NAND, DRAM, foundry/logic are strong. Some grow faster than others. And it's on the back of these trends we've been talking about playing out over time.
We think we're in the very early innings. This is going to be a decade-plus investment cycle. Semiconductors are going to be on the key path of enabling some pretty major trends that play out around the world. And so, our customers are going to be disciplined. They'll continue to add capacity where it makes sense, but it will be in support of what is a more substantive long-term demand statement in the market as opposed to any near-term dynamic that will be temporary in nature.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Michael Sullivan
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Toshiya Hari
Hi. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking the question. I wanted to ask about gross margins. Dan you showed nice upside in the January quarter. I was curious what drove that. And then for April, you're guiding up margins nicely both sequentially and year-over-year. Where are the puts and takes there? And I guess going into the second-half of the fiscal year, would it be fair to assume sort of a gradual progression higher given potentially faster growth in your leadership products and hopefully COVID inefficiencies going away? Thank you.
Dan Durn
Yes. Thanks, Toshiya. When I think about gross margins, company is performing well. We're up 100 basis points year-over-year in the most recent quarter's results. On the guide, we're up about 240 basis points year-over-year, and that's against the backdrop of still some pretty sizable headwinds as it relates to the pandemic safety protocols in our factories logistics costs to move material around the world. And so, I think the company is performing extremely well in the current environment.
And when I think about what's driving that, there's a set of company-specific actions that drive discipline and efficiency into the core operations of the business. No matter where our gross margins are, I will never be satisfied. We've had a number of actions inside of the company to drive that efficiency, to drive that discipline into the core of the operations, and we're beginning to see some of those really take hold in the current environment. So we feel good about the work streams, a lot of hard work inside of the company doing some really hard work and fundamental things to drive that efficiency.
You'll always have an element of customer mix and what we happen to be selling in any one quarter that will influence things from quarter-to-quarter, but there's a whole host of substantive actions that we think are serving the company really well in the current environment. As I look forward into the back half of the fiscal year, this is not a 1-quarter phenomenon.
The top end of our long-term target model for gross margin was 47%. And even in the COVID environment we're operating at that level. I would expect us in the back half of the year to be -- continue to be in the 46.5% to 47% top end of our long-term model. At our Analyst Day, we'll talk about what we see beyond the current horizon over the next several years and opportunities we see to work the gross margins up even higher off of these levels but definitely not a 1-quarter phenomenon. Company is performing well. 
Toshiya Hari
Thank you, congrats.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Atif Malik with Citi. Your line is now open.
Atif Malik
Hi, thank you for taking my question. Question is for Gary. Gary we've heard European Union looking into building or redeveloping fabs in Europe. There is a great deal of buzz among investors that semiconductors have become strategic. Are you engaged with any kind of discussions with Washington D.C. on this topic? 
Gary Dickerson
Yes. Let me -- so I do think that everyone can see that relative to economic growth and employment growth going forward, it's going to look different. And the digital transformation of every industry is being accelerated in the current environment that we're in. So this is very 