Applied Materials Inc. (NASDAQ:AMAT) Q2 2020 Earnings Conference Call May 14, 2020  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Michael Sullivan – Corporate Vice President
Gary Dickerson – President and Chief Executive Officer
Dan Durn – Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
C.J. Muse – Evercore
Atif Malik – Citi
Toshiya Hari – Goldman Sachs
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Krish Sankar – Cowen and Company
Harlan Sur – JPMorgan
Pierre Ferragu – New Street Research
Joe Moore – Morgan Stanley
Operator
Welcome to the Applied Materials Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, you will be invited to participate in a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President. Please go ahead, sir.
Michael Sullivan
Good afternoon, and thank you for joining Applied’s second quarter of fiscal 2020 earnings call, which is being recorded.
Joining me are Gary Dickerson, our President and CEO; and Dan Durn, our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I’d like to remind you that today’s call contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ. Information concerning the risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied’s Form 10-Q and 8-K filings with the SEC.
Today’s call also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to GAAP measures are found in today’s earnings press release and in our quarterly earnings presentation, which are available on the IR page of our website at appliedmaterials.com.
And now, I’d like to turn the call over to Gary Dickerson.
Gary Dickerson
Thanks, Mike. I'd like to start today's call by addressing the topic at the forefront of everyone's mind, the COVID-19 pandemic, which has created unprecedented challenges around the world. My thoughts and best wishes go out to all of you and especially those whose families have been directly affected by the illness. As the situation has evolved over the past several months, our actions at Applied Materials have been guided by two key principles. First, maintaining the trust of our employees, customers, suppliers, and partners. And second, focusing on driving initiatives that will allow us to emerge stronger over the longer term.
As always, our number one priority is the health and wellbeing of our employees and their families. Our workforce remains highly productive, many are working effectively from home and for those working on site, we've implemented strict safety protocols, in close collaboration with our medical advisors, customers and suppliers. In our factories, labs and logistics centers, we've changed physical layouts to allow for social distancing, introduced enhanced cleaning and sanitation procedures, implemented health screenings and mandated the use of personal protective equipment.
All our employees and contingent workers have continued to receive full pay and we've introduced additional incentives and benefits for employees supporting our critical operations. While we've been working through certain supply chain constraints, we have remained laser focused on the needs of our customers and doing what it takes to keep their factories running smoothly and their R&D programs on track. 
Across the company, I see amazing examples of our manufacturing, logistics, and field operations teams going above and beyond to keep our customers and the industry moving forward in a difficult set of circumstances. We're also defining new ways of working with customers that not only provide solutions today, but will also create significant benefits over the long term. 
Finally, in line with Applied's long held values to make a positive contribution to the communities where we live and work. We've created a global charitable COVID fund. The purpose of this fund is to address immediate humanitarian needs and combat long-term effects on local communities and the non-profit sector. We've also donated masks and equipment to medical facilities. And in addition, there have been numerous employee driven initiatives across the company. It's inspiring to see these employees stepping forward to help volunteering their time, skills and resources to demonstrate our shared passion to make a difference. 

Now, let me turn to the agenda for today's call. I'll begin with a summary of our second quarter performance and near-term outlook. Then I'll provide a longer-term perspective on our markets. And I'll finish with a summary of our strategy highlighting some of our recent accomplishments. Later, Dan will give more color on our financial results, operational performance and business environment. 
Starting with our near term business outlook demand from our semiconductor customers remains strong. In fiscal Q2, our financial performance was negatively affected by our ability to ship systems to customers as shelter in place and locked down orders impacted some of our suppliers’ operations, particularly in the Bay Area and Malaysia. However, we're in a much better position today. Thanks to the flexibility in our global operations footprint, we've been able to make adjustments. And we continue to work closely with our suppliers to ensure they can meet our needs. Our supply chain remains a critical area of focus as we enter our third quarter with record orders and a record backlog for our semiconductor and service businesses combined.
In terms of the semiconductor industry environment, I will focus my comments on what we currently see in the market and what we're hearing from customers. In foundry/logic demand at the leading edge remains very healthy with a strong commitment from these customers to build out their factories and push forward with their development road maps.
However, we're seeing some pockets of weakness in specialty markets, mainly as a result of a pullback in the automotive and industrial sectors. In memory, there are no major changes to the outlook we provided last quarter. We continue to see a positive progression in the market with inventory levels, approaching normal and improvements in pricing trends. 
As a result, we're seeing incremental strength in investment by memory customers as we move through the year. Based on the visibility that we have today, underlying demand for semiconductor equipment is robust.
And even when COVID-related effects are taking into account, we still believe that our semiconductor business can deliver strong double digit growth for our fiscal year. In display, we expect our FY 2020 revenues to be close to FY 2019 as the industry navigates the bottom of this spending cycle. 
Our display business remains solidly profitable, even as we invest in next generation products ready for when the market picks up. Looking further out, we're well aware of global economic concerns. While I'm not going to speculate on possible macro scenarios, I will share some of the key assumptions that we're using to guide our strategy, which are based on carefully monitoring market indicators and staying very close to our customers.
Clearly, consumer spending is a potential headwind for many sectors, including the electronics industry. At the same time, the global pandemic is acting as an accelerator for key technology inflections that were already under way. Working from home, learning from home and e-commerce are driving investments in cloud data centers and communications infrastructure. We expect companies to build stronger business continuity plans, which will include geographic redundancy and increased use of automation and IoT technologies and the adoption of AI and big data remains non-discretionary for many companies. As I've said before, these game changing technologies will transform entire industries and there will be big winners and losers through the transition.
My personal view is that we will see significant and permanent changes in the way companies operate and prioritize their investments. In fact, this is already happening in our business and the ways we are working with customers. Over the past several years, we made significant investments in state-of-the art, digital infrastructure, sensors, and metrology, data science, machine learning and simulation. 

The combination of these technologies enables us to reduce product development cycles, speed up transfer of new technologies from lab to fab and optimize cost output and yield for our customers and volume production. In the past few months, our field and R&D teams have been working with customers to further expand secured data sharing, to enhance remote support and accelerate the deployment of these powerful new tools.
In our own labs, we also have many examples of R&D teams increasing utilization and productivity of lab assets, by applying creative new strategies for mode operations. While near-term actions are being driven by necessity, the long-term benefits of working this way are compelling as they provide significant time to market and cost advantages for Applied and our customers. Our long-term perspective about AI and big data shaping the next decade is unchanged.
And we see strong potential for certain elements of these inflections to scale faster than previously expected. As I've said before, to enable these new computing systems and unlock the potential of AI technologies, major advances in the power, performance, and area of cost or PPAC of semiconductor devices are needed. 
Based on recent input from customers, we've updated our PPAC framework to PPACT, where T stands for time to market, acknowledging the enormous value of speed. Applied has by far, the largest broad portfolio of technologies and products to accelerate the PPACT playbook which spans creating, shaping, modifying, analyzing and connecting structures and devices. We're the only company with process and metrology under one roof. And we have highly differentiated silicon and packaging lab capabilities. As a result, we have a significant advantage in our ability to accelerate new PPACT innovations for the semiconductor ecosystem. The capabilities we have built and the multi-year investments we have made are yielding results.
According to VLSI Research’s recently published report. We outperformed the market in both semiconductor equipment and services last year. Our performance in deposition technology was especially strong with our PVD business gaining seven points of share. We also have great momentum in metrology and inspection. Our process diagnostics and control group delivered record revenue in the first half of the year. One of the key contributors to this record performance is our new optical inspection system that we will be officially launching later this year.
Before I hand the call over to Dan, I will quickly summarize. First as we navigate the challenges created by COVID-19, we've rallied the company around two guiding principles, maintain the trust of employees, customers, suppliers, and partners, and focus on driving actions that ensure Applied Materials emerges stronger over the longterm. 
Second while we're mindful of potential macroeconomic headwinds, based on what we see and hear today, semiconductor equipment demand remains robust and our supply chain is getting healthier. Third, we remain fully committed to our strategy to accelerate the PPACT playbook and our pipeline of new innovative products and integrated processes has never been better. 
Now, I will turn the call over to Dan.
Dan Durn
Thanks, Gary. Today, I'll summarize our second quarter results and activities. Give you an update on the environment and share our current expectations for the second half of our fiscal year. As a reminder on March 23, we suspended our Q2 guidance because of the global response to COVID-19 was creating significant challenges across our supply chain, manufacturing, operations, and logistics. Due to the extreme uncertainty, we also decided to borrow against our revolving credit facility. We promised to provide our investors with an update on this earnings webcast, and I'll do that in a moment.

This afternoon, we announced our Q2 results, which were below our original guidance, but solid considering the extreme challenges our teams faced due to COVID. I'm proud of our employees for putting health and safety first and still doing everything possible to support our customers, both in keeping our factories running and by keeping our R&D programs moving.
Despite the incremental challenges we experienced in the last six weeks of our quarter, we delivered AGS and display revenue that was higher than our original expectations in February. Our semi systems revenue was below our original outlook, and that was entirely due to COVID-related supply constraints and demand remains strong. And while the environment remains fluid, we exited the quarter with the second highest company backlog in our history and record backlog for semi systems plus AGS combined.
For the company as a whole in Q2 on a year-over-year basis, we grew revenue by 12%, increased non-GAAP operating profit by 23% and grew non-GAAP EPS by 27% to $0.89. During the quarter, we returned $392 million to shareholders in buybacks and dividends and announced a dividend increase of nearly 5%. We ended Q2 with nearly $7.4 billion on the balance sheet, including $1.5 billion in credit facility proceeds.
Now I'll share my assessment of the COVID environment, which includes several encouraging developments. Our industry has been designated critical infrastructure in many parts of the world. All of our suppliers have now been able to resume operations and they were recovering to normal output. We've been in very close communications with our customers and their demand indications remained strong. 
We're mindful of the macro economic impacts of COVID including job losses in the consumer and industrial sectors of the global economy. But governments have provided strong financial support to workers, businesses and the banking system. As a result of our assessment of the environment, we fully repaid our revolving credit facility, borrowings subsequent to the end of the quarter. We currently have approximately $5.9 billion of cash and investments on the balance sheet, which is an increase of about $200 million compared to our Q1 balance. We are continuing to prepare for the planned acquisition of Kokusai Electric. During Q2, we received Taiwan's clearance for the transaction, and we have one final approval pending from China. Turning to the business outlook, while I see positive signs, there is still potential for COVID-related disruptions around the world, and we're not providing revenue and earnings guidance for Q3.
I know there is concern about the risk of further economic impacts and changes in customer investment patterns, but rather than speculate, I'll attempt to help our investors by providing visibility into what we are seeing across our operating segments. 
In semiconductor systems, our Q2 revenue would have been nearly $650 million higher absent COVID related constraints. We hope to recover this revenue in Q3 and Q4 as the supply chain improves. In the second quarter our semi systems orders were up significantly and demand is broadening to more customers based on what we're hearing from our customers. We believe Q3 semi revenue could be up in the high single digits, sequentially and higher again in Q4 resulting in strong double digit growth for the fiscal year.
Our services business has proven highly resilient during the crisis, and we continue to generate a growing proportion of revenue from subscription like long-term service agreements. AGS posted its first $1 billion dollar quarter ever in Q2 with nearly 60% of revenue coming from service agreements. In Q3, we believe AGS revenue could be flat to slightly higher sequentially and higher again in Q4. Within AGS, our semi parts and services business has grown to $3.2 billion or 24% of our company's semi-related revenue. 

VLSI research has begun to size and compare the parts and service revenue of companies in the industry. Ours is the strongest among our peers, both on a dollar basis and as a percent of our semi-related revenue. Our total semiconductor installed based business, which includes parts, services, 200-millimeter systems and 300-millimeter upgrades and refurbs has grown to become 38% of our semi-related revenue.
This ratio is about five points higher than our peers. As Gary indicated, we still expect our display revenue to be nearly the same this year as last. We believe revenue is likely to be flat to slightly higher sequentially in Q3 and higher again in Q4. In short, if the demand indications from our customers hold and our supply chains continue to improve, then we should have second half weighted revenue in each segment. Based on everything we see today, this would translate to sequential revenue growth and earnings growth in Q3, and then again in Q4.
So in summary, while the situation remains fluid and macroeconomic impacts are still unknown, our customers remain committed to their technology roadmaps and are signaling growth for Applied. We will remain vigilant, stay close to our customers and be ready to respond quickly if the environment changes. Once again, I'm incredibly proud of our employees for their strong commitment to health and safety and their strong support of our customers, both in meeting today's demand that our factories and theirs and innovating in our R&D labs to enable the technology of the future.
Now, Mike let's begin the Q&A.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks, Dan. There are a lot of people on the call today. So to help us reach as many of you as we can, I'm going to ask you to please ask just one question and not more than one brief followup.
Operator, let's please begin.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of C.J. Muse with Evercore. Your line is now open.
C.J. Muse
Yes, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question, you talked about expectations for incremental strength from memory through the calendar year. I was hoping perhaps you could elaborate on that in terms of mix between both NAND and DRAM as well as new wafer starts versus strengths. And what gives you the confidence that, that is sustainable in this world of COVID?
Gary Dickerson
Thanks, C.J. As we look into the year, we see the year profiling pretty similar from a proportion of spend standpoint that we talked about a quarter ago. We see strength in foundry/logic continuing throughout the year as our order book and customer base broadens, and we feel good about that. As we profile to memory, we talked about seeing some incremental strength this year, both on DRAM and NAND. I think it's too early to call the magnitude of that, but we do see balance across the device types from a spend standpoint. And I do think there is going to be similarities in terms of 2019 being an investment year, primarily focused on technology road maps. 
And we actually saw wafer starts per month last year, 2019, actually go down year-over-year in both DRAM and NAND. And as we look into this year, we don't really see strong capacity adds. We continue to see our customers driving their technology road maps. Because that is, in effect, their cost structure. It allows them to drive margins and cash flow when industries recover. So we see continued investments from a technology road map standpoint, but we see probably less wafer starts per month coming out of the system than we did the year before.
So it's sort of on the margin. We continue to stay close. We will watch it. And we'll continue to be open and transparent. In an environment that's defined by uncertainty, what we want to try to do is be as helpful as possible, share with investors the things we're seeing and hearing from our customers and we'll let you know what we see each quarter as the situation evolves.

C.J. Muse
That's helpful. If I could sneak a quick follow-up, Mike. On gross margins, can you speak to how you see the trajectory into the second half considering what looks to be a positive mix from both silicon and AGS? And also as it relates to supply chain, I think you took out $8 million of COVID-related expenses. Is that something that should sustain into the back half? How should we be thinking about that? Thanks.
Gary Dickerson
Thanks, C.J. I'll take both. As we think about the actions the company took in the current environment, we made conscious decisions about how we were going to position ourselves from an operating and manufacturing standpoint and decisions were made very early in the process. We implemented our business continuity team in the middle of January. And as part of contingency planning and mapping out potential points of risk, we made decisions to put in place surge capacity from a personnel standpoint. And that decision was made probably the first week of February.
So clearly there is an impact to maintain cycle times and throughputs that are on par with where we were before COVID. That's a result of really strong teamwork and execution and planning. But it certainly has a headwind from a margin standpoint. And we're optimizing around serving our customers and taking care of the things that we can take care of so we can better withstand the things we can't control which is what we saw from a supply chain disruption standpoint and the rate and pace of that recovery. So we feel good about that. But certainly it does create a bit of a headwind. And you see that profiling through some of the segments and I'm happy to share more of that thinking, but it's definitely there.
From a gross margin standpoint, as we look into next quarter what we signaled was a favorable segment mix and in a normal environment that would create improvement from a gross margin standpoint. What I'd also say is what we experienced in our most recent quarter was six weeks of impact of a material supply chain disruption driven by a concurrent shelter-in-place order in the Bay Area and Malaysia. It affected a material part of our supply chain, but it was a six-week impact.
Going into Q3, we've got a full 13-week impact as the supply chain becomes healthier and that will sort of offset a bit of the favorable segment mix. So I think the best way to think about our gross margin as we look into Q3 from a planning assumption standpoint is to think about it flat. If we can do better, we certainly will. But we'll take it one quarter at a time and give investors our best view of what we see and the pluses and minuses as we manage the business to the best of our ability in this environment.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks, C.J.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Atif Malik with Citi. Your line is now open.
Atif Malik
Thank you for taking my questions. I have two. First for Gary. Company gained 0.5 point of equipment share last year and served variable markets led by deposition. Which end markets or technologies are you more confident to show outsized growth this year and next year? And as a follow-up, Dan, I'm curious what your take is on recent Department of Commerce's China equipment licensees for the future shipments.
Gary Dickerson
Thanks for the question. I think I'll take both of those. So let me start with market share. And starting from an overall company perspective, one of the things that we've discussed before is that we have very good balance across all device segments, including leading and trailing logic, DRAM and NAND. This enables us to perform well really regardless of the device mix. It gives us ability to perform well in pretty much any environment.
So if we look at overall, 2019 was a good year for us. Your question I think is related to 2020. We look at 2020 as also a very good setup for us. As I said in the prepared remarks, we anticipate strong double-digit growth for Applied in 2020. And what I would say is that in this new environment, I used to travel a significant amount. And I'm still on the phone very frequently with CEOs, R&D leaders. In fact, I had a call with one of the CEOs this morning. And one of the things that's a real advantage for Applied is the traction we have with customers to accelerate their PPACT road maps. And that really is both for memory and also for foundry and logic.

So performance in 2019, we gained about two points in the markets that we serve and a 0.5 point overall WFE share. So if we look at the setup for 2020, we continue to see strong foundry/logic investments where we have leadership products, PVD, epi, strong traction in new etch applications. We see currently double-digit growth in our memory business, strong double-digit growth in memory, gaining traction with new capabilities that are key for scaling and strong growth in memory patterning applications. So overall, again we have balance across all of these different segments. I would say that our pipeline of our new products in our integrated materials solutions has never been better relative to accelerating PPACT road maps for customers.
Then the second question is around, I think the export controls. So let me start with a perspective of the overall geopolitical situation. And I've said before on this one, Applied believes in fair trade and intellectual property protection. The semi ecosystem and innovation road map rely on these principles. 
So regarding the new regulations that were recently announced by the Department of Commerce, we're working very closely with the U.S. government, trade associations and our advisors to better define the requirements for the industry and to be able to comply with the new regulations. We have some very good people working on this and based on our work to-date, our current expectation is Applied is going to be able to meet the government's required standards when the rules come into effect at the end of June without significant disruptions to our business. If needed, we have significant flexibility in our global operations footprint and we're developing contingency plans that we could implement. But again overall, we believe we're going to be able to meet the government's required standards when the rules become effective.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks, Atif.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Toshiya Hari
Good afternoon and thank you very much for taking the question. Gary, I was hoping you could give us an update on your business in China, both on the memory side as well as the logic and foundry side. One of your foundry customers just raised CapEx, I think it was yesterday, by $1 billion plus. I'm guessing the activity on the memory side continues to be pretty robust as well. But if you can give us an update on what you're seeing near term and what your expectations are for the second half that would be great. And then I've got a quick follow-up.
Dan Durn
Hi, Toshiya. I'll jump in on that question. So as we think about China, let's talk about where we ended 2019 and use that as a jumping-off point to talk about what we see incrementally into 2020 as it relates to domestic China spend.
So if we look back into 2019, the market sizing was about $6.5 billion. And a quarter ago, we set our expectation for 2020 was an incremental $2 billion to $3 billion of domestic China spend. Our expectation in 2020 is still $2 billion to $3 billion. But now, given the customer news overnight, we're probably at the high end of that range.
And so a quarter ago as we think about the decomposition of that incremental spend, we said about one-third 200 millimeter trailing node foundry specialty logic spend, two-thirds of it was 300 millimeter. And as you decompose the 300 millimeter spend, it was roughly split 50-50 between foundry/logic and memory with balance among device types in memory.
And as you think about us at the higher end of the range now, think about incrementally more spend in 300 millimeter trailing node foundry/logic. And I think that gives you an evolution of that spend profile of how the now $2.5 billion to $3 billion is spend toward the high end of that incremental range. That's the best insight we have at this point based on everything we see in the market and what we're talking with our customers about.

Toshiya Hari
That's helpful, Dan. Thank you. And then I think this one is for Gary. I just wanted to follow up on some of your market share comments. I think you said you gained seven percentage points of share in PVD. I was curious what you're seeing on the etch side in terms of market share. And you also spoke to your new product in optical inspection. If you can kind of speak to the differentiating factors for your tool with some of the competition and what your aspirations are over the next couple of years in terms of market share, that would be great. Thank you.
Gary Dickerson
Yes, so let me start with the PDC business overall, and then I’ll answer the edge question. So our inspection measurement business is one of the segments where we have strongest momentum. We talked about the record last quarter we had in the first half of FY2020. And this is far above our previous best half year for the business. We've got strong – we will achieve strong double digit growth overall 