Applied Materials, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMAT) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call November 12, 2020  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Michael Sullivan - Corporate Vice President
Gary Dickerson - President and Chief Executive Officer
Dan Durn - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
C.J. Muse - Evercore
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Atif Malik - Citi
Krish Sankar - Cowen and Company
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
Quinn Bolton - Needham
Joe Quatrochi - Wells Fargo
Operator
Welcome to the Applied Materials earnings conference call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, you will be invited to participate in a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President. Please go ahead, sir.
Michael Sullivan
Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you for joining Applied’s Fourth Quarter of Fiscal 2020 Earnings Call. Joining me are Gary Dickerson, our President and CEO; and Dan Durn, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin, I’d like to remind you that today’s call contains forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ. Information concerning the risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied’s most recent Form 10-Q and 8-K filings with the SEC.
Today’s call also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to GAAP measures are
found in today’s earnings press release and in our quarterly earnings materials, which are available on the IR page of our website at appliedmaterials.com.
And now, I’d like to turn the call over to Gary Dickerson.
Gary Dickerson
Thanks, Mike. I am very pleased to report that Applied Materials delivered record revenue in our fourth fiscal quarter and earnings hit an annualized run-rate of $5 per share for the first time. For the fiscal year, we grew revenues 18% and earnings 37% while making significant, strategic investments in new technologies and products to address the industry’s highest value problems and position the company for sustained, long-term success.
These results are all the more impressive considering the unprecedented disruptions we’ve navigated this year. I really want to thank all our employees, suppliers and partners for their resilience and adaptability. Our teams have switched to new ways of working, delivered on our commitments to customers and investors, and kept our technology and product development on track.
While our actions to date are driven by a need to protect the health and safety of our employees while keeping our company strong, I am very excited about the long-term benefits of working in new ways, especially remote support and R&D.
In today’s call, I’ll begin by sharing our current view of the market environment. Then, as this is the end of our fiscal year, I’ll highlight some of our major accomplishments in 2020, before describing the growth drivers and inflections that will shape our markets over the next several years. I’ll conclude by outlining our strategy and investments that will drive Applied’s long-term profitable growth.
As we adapt to the challenges created by COVID-19 and prepare for the post-pandemic era, we are seeing fundamental changes in many areas of our lives and the world is depending on semiconductors more than ever. Investments in IT and communications infrastructure, combined with the accelerated digital transformation of companies and the economy as a whole, are driving very robust semiconductor and wafer fab equipment demand.
In foundry-logic, we see leading-edge customers building out their fabs and aggressively driving
advanced R&D. This gives us confidence that current investment levels are sustainable into 2021 and beyond.

In addition, specialty markets underperformed in 2020 due to headwinds in industrial and automotive, and therefore represent an upside for 2021 as these sectors rebound. In memory, spending is growing faster than foundry-logic this year as customers push forward with their technology roadmaps. We see NAND outgrowing DRAM in 2020, and then DRAM growing significantly faster than NAND in 2021.
Consistent with the perspective we shared on the August call, our outlook remains very positive. We are outperforming the market and we are demonstrating we can grow independent of the spending mix. This quarter, semiconductor systems revenues were an all-time – the mid-point of our guidance will be up another 12% next quarter. For the fiscal year, semi systems revenue grew 26%, with broad-based strength across products and device types.
Our traditional leadership businesses that provide solutions for creating and modifying materials and structures are benefiting from innovations that enable leading-edge transistors and interconnects. For example, our metals deposition business technology that is critical to interconnect performance grew revenues 42% in fiscal 2020 to nearly $2.2 billion.
In our businesses that focus on shaping and analyzing materials and structures, we have significant opportunities to grow our share and we’re demonstrating our strong momentum. In fiscal 2020, our etch business generated record revenues, growing nearly 30% year-on-year. We are gaining share in conductor etch as we win new applications in DRAM and foundry-logic.
Our inspection business also delivered record performance, as systems revenues increased 46% for the year. We have significant traction with leading-edge customers and are winning share in optical wafer inspection and E-beam with new products that are still in early stages of adoption. As the benefits of traditional 2D Moore’s Law scaling slow down, leading companies are describing how the industry is transitioning to a new playbook to drive Performance, Power, Area-Cost and Time-to-Market of new devices. This PPACt playbook includes new architectures, new structures, new materials, new ways to shrink geometries and new packaging technology.
Applied is uniquely positioned to accelerate this playbook. The breadth of our product portfolio is a key advantage because it allows us to combine technologies in innovative new ways. For example, in patterning where we generated nearly $1.1 billion of revenue in fiscal 2020, we have been winning new applications across multiple customers with a new product that delivers a novel hard-mask material combined with a co-optimized etch solution to open the hard-mask.
This is a great example of a new class of highly differentiated products we call Integrated Materials Solutions or IMS. We have numerous IMS engagements with our leading customers and I’m very excited about the IMS products we’ll be bringing to market in the next several years.
Another area where we are creating value using our broad capabilities is advanced packaging that enables chips to be connected in new ways. Our packaging business is scaling, generating record revenues of half a billion dollars for the year, up over 20% from fiscal 2019. We are also expanding our eco-system footprint through a combination of organic investments and partnerships.
Moving to service, AGS also delivered record revenues for the quarter and the year. The portion of AGS revenue generated from subscription-style business also grew to record levels. In fiscal 2020, we increased the number of tools covered by long-term service agreements by 13%. As a result, 60% of our service and spare parts business now comes from these stickier and more predictable recurring revenue streams.
Our renewal rates for long-term agreements are also very high, at more than 90%. This illustrates the value customers see in our advanced service products. Rounding out our portfolio with Display, we hit our 2020 revenue target in a challenging market. Our outlook for 2021 is similar to this year with no significant changes to the view we shared in our last call.

However, we are starting to see some encouraging leading indicators of future growth that we’ll be watching closely in 2021. These include increasing adoption of Organic LED displays OLED for IT applications, higher OLED adoption in the smartphone market with more than 70% of the 5G handsets launched to date equipped with OLED screens and foldable OLED handsets approaching a price point that could spur volume adoption. As I’ve said before, we are optimistic about the long-term opportunities for Applied in the display market as we focus on addressing the OLED inflection and expanding our available market.
Finally, as I look back on our accomplishments this year, I am also very proud of our new 10-year roadmap for environmental and social responsibility that we announced over the summer. This roadmap lays out the detailed actions behind our vision to ‘Make Possible a Better Future’ for everyone. We’ve taken a holistic approach to these plans that considers our operations, how we work with customers and suppliers, and how our technology can be used to advance sustainability on a global scale. We call our framework 1x, 100x, 10,000x, and we’ve used it to rally the company around challenging new goals and commitments.
Before I conclude, I’ll take a few minutes to describe the longer-term growth drivers we see for Applied. As I look ahead to the next decade, our opportunities have never been better. There are numerous, trillion-dollar inflections that can be enabled by advances in materials engineering, from next generation displays and AR/VR, to electrification of transport and personalized healthcare. However, the one inflection that really stands out is Al. Al has the potential to change everything and it will touch every major industry and area of the economy.
Al also has major implications for the electronics and semiconductor eco-system: First, we are moving from an application-centric to a data-first world where almost all data will be generated and consumed by machines. This means that the industry’s growth will no longer be limited by humans’ ability to create or consume data. Second, the new computing approaches needed to make sense of the massive volumes of data available will work best with workload-specific hardware built from customized and entirely new types of silicon. This diversification of designs and devices is great for the industry.
And third, training neural networks for Al computing is incredibly power intensive. So there is a huge imperative for the industry to drive improvements in the performance-per-watt of computing solutions. The advances in technology needed to unlock the potential of Al create tremendous opportunities for Applied Materials. We’ve aligned our strategy and investments around this vision for the future. And, we are uniquely positioned to accelerate the industry’s new PPACt playbook, to advance Power, Performance, Area-Cost and Time-to-market of next generation semi devices.
Before hand the call over to Dan, let me quickly summarize. Despite the unprecedented challenges of 2020, Applied is delivering record performance. We are outperforming the market overall and have strong momentum in key growth areas like etch and inspection. The demand outlook for semiconductors remains very strong, driven by IT infrastructure, digital transformation of businesses, and an acceleration of longer-term technology trends, especially Al.
Our future opportunities have never been better. We have been investing in next-generation technologies that are critical for the Al ecosystem and laying the groundwork for Applied’s future growth. Our strategy to accelerate the PPACt playbook is already yielding results for our customers and Applied. And, as look ahead, I’m very excited about the innovative new products and integrated solutions we will bring to market in 2021 and beyond.

Now, I will turn the call over to Dan.
Dan Durn
Thanks, Gary. Today, I’ll add my perspective on our Q4 performance and full-year results. I’ll share some noteworthy developments in our installed base business and I’ll provide you with our backlog entering our next fiscal year along with our business outlook for Q1. Beginning with our Q4 performance, I’m pleased that our company delivered record revenue and earnings per share despite the ongoing challenges related to COVID.
Our teams managed to significantly increase our system shipments and customer support and we did this in a very disciplined manner that resulted in higher operating profits and free cash flow. We’ve now shipped all of the unmet backlog from earlier in the year and our Q1 guidance gives you a direct look at the healthy demand trends we continue to see in our business.
In Q4, we delivered revenue above the midpoint of our guidance across all of the segments, including record revenue in Semi Systems and AGS. We grew revenue by 25% versus the same period last year, increased non-GAAP operating profit by 49% year-on-year, and delivered record non-GAAP EPS of $1.25, which was up 56% year-over-year. We also increased operating cash flow to over $1.3 billion, up 59% year-over-year.
About two months into our quarter, the U.S. government imposed a licensing requirement related to one of our foundry customers in China. This requirement reduced our revenue in Q4 and our guidance for Q1. We’ve already applied for licenses where needed to comply with the new rules.
Turning to our full-year results, I’m especially pleased with the growth of our semiconductor-related businesses. Semi Systems and AGS combined grew by over 20%, year-over-year. Our installed base business, which includes AGS plus 300 millimeter upgrades, grew by over 9% year-on-year and continues to represent close to a third of Applied’s revenue. This growing part of our company provides an annuity-like revenue stream that makes us more resilient across market cycles.
Within AGS, we’ve seen positive developments in our long-term service agreements. Until recently, the vast majority of our agreements had one-year terms, but in 2020, about a third of the agreements we signed had terms of at least three years. We’ve increased these extended service agreements by a factor of 10 over the past three years.
This outstanding growth underscores the close working relationships we have with customers, who are using our data-enabled services over the life of a node to generate world-class yields, output and costs. In fact, in 2020, we grew the installed base of our data-enabled tools by nearly 40%.
For the company as a whole in 2020, we delivered record revenue in both Semi Systems and AGS. We increased non-GAAP gross margin by 110 basis points, invested 69% of non-GAAP OpEx in research and development, grew non-GAAP operating profit by 32%, and increased EPS by 37%.
We also generated $3.8 billion in operating cash flow setting a new record and returned $1.44 billion to shareholders. We raised the dividend for the third year in a row, paid dividends of $787 million, and allocated nearly $650 million to stock buybacks, repurchasing at an average price of $56.32.
We increased cash on the balance sheet by nearly $2 billion as we prepared for the Kokusai Electric transaction. In Q4, our stock buybacks were limited to $50 million as our legal department imposed a trading blackout out of an abundance of caution in connection with our discussions with the Chinese regulatory agency that is reviewing the Kokusai Electric transaction. We continue to have constructive discussions and we’re working to secure clearance for the transaction before the end of the calendar year.
Next I’ll share some color regarding the demand we see as we enter our new fiscal year. Applied’s backlog reached nearly $6.7 billion in Q4, setting a new year-end record. The combined backlog of our semi-related businesses also set a year-end record, growing to nearly $5.5 billion. Our Display backlog declined year-over-year and, as Gary discussed, we’re tracking the leading indicators of the eventual recovery.

Now I’ll share our Q1 business outlook. We expect company revenue to be approximately $4.95 billion, plus or minus $200 million, with the midpoint up about 19%, year-over-year. We expect non-GAAP EPS to be about $1.26 plus or minus $0.06, or up nearly 30%, year-over-year. Within this outlook, we project Semiconductor Systems revenue of around $3.45 billion, up nearly 23% year-over-year, AGS revenue of about $1.07 billion, up around 7% year-over-year, and Display revenue of around $400 million, up about 20% year-on-year.
We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be about 45.3%, which is higher year-over-year and lower sequentially due to near-term changes in product and customer mix. We expect Non-GAAP OpEx to increase to $860 million reflecting higher expenses from a 14-week quarter plus one month of annual merit increases partially offset by holiday shut-down savings. Our Q1 guidance assumes a tax rate of around 12% and a weighted average share count of around 925 million.
In summary, I’m pleased that Applied delivered record performance in Q4 and has strong momentum entering our new fiscal year. Our backlog is at record levels as our products and technology generate strong customer pull. Our installed base business is becoming larger and more resilient with growth in our data-enabled services and multiyear service agreements. I’m incredibly proud of our teams for supporting our customers under challenging global circumstances while delivering record earnings and increased cash flow to our shareholders.
Now Mike, let’s begin the Q&A.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks, Dan. Now to help us reach as many of you as we can. Please ask just one question and not more than one brief follow-up. Operator, let’s please begin.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of C.J. Muse from Evercore. Your question please.
C.J. Muse
Yes, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess, my first question, if I look at your DRAM business and make assumptions around your January quarter, it looks like you’re going to grow about mid-30% for DRAM. And that’s far better than what we’re seeing industry-wide. So I guess, can you discuss what’s driving that outperformance including some discussion on your success with conductor etch? And how should we think about your share of wallet for DRAM given that that’s probably the fastest growing sub segment in calendar 2021?
Dan Durn
Yes, thanks C.J. I’ll take the question. As you pointed out, our DRAM business is showing significant signs of strength this year. We’ve built momentum throughout the year and we expect to close the year very strong. As we think about the overall growth rate of the DRAM market in this year against the backdrop of an industry that’s probably growing 10% to 15% probably at the high end of that range for overall WFE. Our overall systems business is going to be up over 25% for the calendar year against that DRAM as a market is probably a couple of points higher than the overall industry. So based on the math you walked through, you can see that the company is significantly outperforming.
On last quarter’s call, Gary talked about the momentum we’re seeing from a conductor etch standpoint. So the team is performing really, really well there. And then as you think about, things like high-k metal gate to get the IO speeds on and off the DRAM device we’ve been talking for a while about that inflection coming into the market, and we’re just really well positioned from a technology standpoint to drive our customers’ roadmaps and seeing strong adoption.
So we feel really good about how we’re performing against the backdrop of a good market. But clearly, strong performance and we’re really encouraged by what we see going forward and we would expect this strength to continue in the next year as we continue to push our customers’ roadmap and drive strong adoption of the technology.

Gary Dickerson
Yes, maybe C.J., just add a little bit more color. This is Gary. For high speed, the periphery is moving to more like as Dan said more logic-like processes, where that’s in the sweet spot of where we have leadership with a number of different products. So that’s part of a unique inflection, that’s really fueling our growth in DRAM. And I talked, I think in the last earnings call about the growth that we’ve seen in our DRAM conductor etch, gaining about 30 points of share since 2016. And so with the key technology inflections for the high-speed memory and also the strength of the Sym3 and etch, really that’s fueling our growth, and we feel really good that we’re going to continue to enable the future inflections and continue to grow – outgrow the market in DRAM.
C.J. Muse
Very helpful. And as my follow-up, I guess, perhaps if you could focus on domestic China and overall China, I think the concern out there is that the types of numbers we’re seeing is not sustainable, particularly given what’s going on with SMIC. But curious if you could offer thoughts on the greater breadth of spending that we’ll probably see in calendar 2021 and then how we should think about multinationals layering in and what impact that will have on overall CapEx coming out of China? Thank you.
Dan Durn
Yes, sure C.J. Let me jump in on that and see if Gary wants to add anything at the end. From an overall market standpoint in calendar year 2020, we see meaningful spend by both the domestic customers as well as the multinational customers. And if I were to think about weighting of that spend, I would say it favors the domestic market over the multinationals. But both groups of customers are having meaningful spend. I think what you see is a broad-base of investments. You’re seeing investments across 200 millimeter geometries, 300 millimeter geometries, and within 300 millimeter geometries, you’re seeing investments in NAND, DRAM, foundry, logic. So all device types.
We think that continues into 2021. We probably won’t see the growth rates that we did in 2020. It’s going to be a strong year, but you certainly won’t see those growth rates. From a growth standpoint, I would expect multinationals to show more growth than the domestic customers, but still strong spend in both categories. So we see, it’s a good market. We continue to see strength in China and expect to see that for the foreseeable future as they build their ecosystem in a slow disciplined manner.
Michael Sullivan
Thanks C.J.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Credit Suisse. Your question please.
John Pitzer
Yes, good afternoon guys. Congratulations on the solid results. Just to follow-up on C.J’s question on China, Dan. You talked about it in your prepared comments that the ruling against SMIC did impact your fiscal fourth quarter, fiscal first quarter. Wonder if you can just confirm with us how much of an impact was it? And does SMIC now represent zero within the forward-looking numbers or how are we thinking about kind of the impact there?
Dan Durn
Yes, thanks, John. Here is what I can share with you. As you can imagine, we probably don’t want to be too detailed on what any one customer is doing, but the licensing requirement that we talked about, it was put in place about two-thirds of the way through our fiscal fourth quarter. So we saw about four or five weeks exposure to that new requirement.
As we said in the prepared comments, Q4 revenue and Q1 guidance would have been higher if those restrictions had not been in place. So we’re complying with the new rules. We’ve already applied for licenses where we need them. Trade situation remains fluid. So we don’t want to speculate about the future. But certainly the revenue in Q4 and guide for Q1 would have been higher, absent that requirement.

As you know, we’ve been in China for a very long time. We’ve got a broad-base of relationships and it’s across all device types and we would expect the China market to continue to be strong for us going forward. And again, we’re working with governments to get the licensing requirement satisfied.
John Pitzer
That’s helpful. And then maybe for my follow-up for Gary. Gary, a lot of the conversation around U.S.-China trade tension. There had been concerns around restriction of shipping equipment into China. But there’s clearly a second side of the story where a lot of countries now are looking at the strategic necessity for semiconductor capacity. You have things like the CHIPS Act in the U.S., you have TSMC announcing a foundry in Arizona earlier this year. EU officials have been talking about perhaps incentivizing more domestic production, in Japan, the same. So I’m just kind of curious, given your vantage point in the industry, how important of a trend do you think this will be, this idea of regionalization of semi capacity? And what kind of potential growth driver, could it be for your business?
Gary Dickerson
Yes, thanks for the question, John. So first-off, I would say that really the major focus for all our customers is to drive their roadmaps, deliver the lowest power, highest performance chips at the best cost. And I deeply believe that the future roadmap is going to look very different than the past. I’ve talked before about classic Moore’s Law and 2D scaling, not being enough to enable the future AI infrastructure at the edge and in the cloud.
So I do believe, kind of aligned with your question, that this is highly strategic for many countries and many regions, and I do — we do see that certainly, we see some near-term trends with big customers moving to new regions in alignment with that trend, and I think that that’s going to continue. So it definitely creates an opportunity for Applied going forward, certainly as these customers are moving to new regions, the support in terms of accelerating their R&D, the ramp, transfer of technologies into these new regions, all of that creates a great service opportunity for us.
And then even more important, as I said, I do believe the future is going to look different than the past. We’re at an inflection point in the industry relative to how you drive the technology forward. One of our biggest customers two months ago, talked about their roadmap beyond 2020 to double energy efficient computing every two years. And if you go look at the slide two months ago, it exactly aligns what I’ve been talking about with the five elements of the playbook around new architectures, new materials, new structures, new ways to shrink and new ways to connect chips together with advanced packaging.
So exactly what we’ve been talking about and Applied is in a really great position with innovative products and integrated solutions to enable that new PPACt playbook. So I think we’ve never been in a better position. And again, I do believe that the industry is at an inflection point and the countries and the companies that are best aligned to this new playbook and get there first are going to win. It’s very, very important for the whole AI infrastructure going forward.
Michael Sullivan
Thank you. John.
John Pitzer
Appreciate it.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs. Your question please.
Toshiya Hari
Hi guys. Good afternoon and thank you for taking the question. Gary, my first question is on Inspection. I think in your prepared remarks you talked about your business being up 46%. I think it was your systems business was up 46% in fiscal 2020. You probably outperformed most of your peers, if not all your peers during that timeframe. Where are you seeing the most traction in Inspection and how should we think about sustainability for that business into 2021? And I’ve got a quick follow-up.

Gary Dickerson
Yes, thanks Toshiya for the question. So absolutely the Inspection business is a real bright spot for the company. And as you mentioned we grew the systems revenue by 46%. We have a new optical inspection system and new e-beam products that are seeing strong initial adoption with leading customers. And in both areas, we have a lot of room to grow and we’ll make an official launch fairly soon on some of these new capabilities. And the other thing I would say, certainly the – in this business, we have some really, really great leading technology. And the other aspect, that’s important for Applied is the connection in driving the PPACt roadmap.
The analysis of all of these new innovations, when you think about wiring to lower resistance to improve the power or gate all around for high performance transistors, having these unique imaging capabilities and we have launched a product that has dramatically higher resolution than any product – e-beam product that’s on the market today. Being able