Baidu, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIDU)  Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call  May 18, 2021  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Juan Lin - Director, IR
Robin Li - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Herman Yu - Chief Financial Officer
Dou Shen - Executive Vice President
Conference Call Participants
Alicia Yap - Citigroup
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs 
Alex Yao - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Jerry Liu - UBS Investment Bank
Miranda Zhuang - Bank of America
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley
James Lee - Mizuho Securities
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Tian Hou - T.H. Capital
Operator
Hello, and thank you for standing by for Baidu’s First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After management’s prepared remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Today’s conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today’s conference, Juan Lin, Baidu’s Director of Investor Relations.
Juan Lin
Hello everyone and welcome to Baidu’s first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. Baidu’s earnings release was distributed earlier today and you can find a copy on our website, as well as on Newswire services.
On the call today, we have Robin Li, our Co-Founder and CEO; Herman Yu, our CFO; and Dou Shen, our EVP In Charge of Search and Feed. After our prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session.
Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Potential discussions of these risks and uncertainties, please refer to our latest Annual Report and other documents filed with the SEC and Hong Kong Exchange. Baidu does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, except as required under applicable law.
Our earnings press release and this call include discussions of certain unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. Our press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited most directly comparable GAAP measures and is available on our IR website at ir.baidu.com.
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will also be available on Baidu’s IR website.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Robin.
Robin Li
Hello everyone. We delivered strong results in the first quarter with Baidu Core revenue growing 34% year-over-year to RMB20.5 billion. Our business was strong across the board, particularly in our new AI business including Cloud, Smart Transportation, and Intelligent Driving. 
Non-advertising revenues within Baidu Core rose 70% year-over-year to RMB4.2 billion accounting for 21% of Baidu Core. China held the two session annual congressional gathering in early March and technology innovation was repeatedly mentioned. It was emphasized that never in the history of China has innovation been more important to the development of China. 
China’s pursuit of innovation through technology to boost long-term growth and productivity will further expand the use of AI. We have witnessed AI platforms or AI powered infrastructure enabling applications disrupting markets. For example, we entered the smart device market three years ago, despite two dominant market leaders with strong manufacturing and distribution capabilities. 
We leveraged the Baidu’s leading AI technology including national language processing and speech recognition to make DuerOS Smart Assistant understand humans better. This in turn has resulted in making Xiaodu smart display Number 1 in shipments globally. 
We further changed the market dynamics by introducing smart devices over RMB1000, compared to the sub RMB100 devices that our peers focused on. AI powered platforms are changing the technology landscape. New vehicles sold are being equipped with sensors and AI capabilities, both internally and externally to provide intelligent driving and in-vehicle infotainment. 
Apollo serves as the AI platform that powers this two critical functions of intelligent vehicles. Apollo autonomous driving is making new breakthroughs and over 1.5 million vehicles have been sold in China pre-installed with DuerOS for auto. Installation of DuerOS for auto saw continued strength in the first quarter growing over 100% year-over-year. 
According to IHS, over 50% of the vehicles sold in China this year are expected to be connected and the percentage is expected to rise. We are excited to be deploying V2X vehicle-to-road infrastructure across China, which enables connected vehicles to be more intelligent. 
Just as the continuous upgrade of telecom networks since 2G has enabled mobile phones to become better and smarter, we believe Apollo Smart Transportation infrastructure can be continuously upgraded to make connected vehicles, more convenient, safer, greener and in general, more intelligent over time. 
As we build Apollo V2X infrastructure in cities across China, we are getting requests to expand our Smart Transportation offering through greater use of AI into Maps and solutions to digitize public parkings and highways. 
The expansion of Apollo Smart Transportation beyond V2X into different sectors of transportation in metropolitan and highways leading into them will create a powerful network effect when these solutions are integrated and synchronized a transportation network powered by Baidu Brain. 
Our divestment of PaaS for different industries and empowering our ad customers with marketing cloud are further examples of how AI platforms are changing industry dynamics from digital transformation to mobile Internet. 
On the latter, we have a big opportunity to expand online marketing from selling traffic to empowering merchants with AI powered marketing cloud and improve search to transaction conversion. Our strong Internet foundation, coupled with growing user engagement provides us with another driver for non-advertising growth. 
Turning to Q1 operational highlights. Our AI Cloud continues to see strong adoption due to our holistic approach including a large developer community, self-designed chips, best-in-class machine learning services and large AI patent portfolio. 
With increasing AI adoption in China, Baidu PaddlePaddle has become a top one deep learning framework globally in terms of core requests, alongside with Facebook PyTorchand Google TensorFlow according to Github. 
We have spent years developing AI chips to optimize workload and improve cloud cost of structure with external demand for GPU chips and Baidu Kunlun completed its first round of funding at a post-money valuation of US$2 billion in April this year. 
Baidu EasyDL, a simple to use machine learning service for non-developers was rated Number 1 in terms of usage in China, per IDC, topping the list for the second time. Customers are telling us that they are choosing Baidu due to us having the largest AI patent portfolio in China, Baidu’s decade long experience with AI technology and our large patent portfolio gives customers the confidence that we can deliver end-to-end cloud solutions with PaaS and SaaS that meets their needs. 
Last quarter, we illustrated AI solutions that were scalable and replicable across different industries such as our automated AI call center. We are also seeing customers who implement Baidu AI PaaS return for repeat purchases. 
For example, we helped a major retail bank in China implement Baidu AI PaaS, which has led to five follow-on purchases including applications to automate customer service and customer loan approval and the recent purchase of private cloud services. 
In the media sector, we partnered with online arm of China's largest TV network CCTV to implement Baidu AI PaaS with capabilities to automate video clip creation and tagging from live broadcasting and use smart assistant to quickly locate desired video content. 
During the two sessions, we enabled CCTV.com to simultaneously interview congressional meeting participants with AI reporters, powered by Baidu Brain, and the timely share these interviews on the Internet.
Smart transportation is becoming a way to digitize the transportation industry in China to improve traffic conditions and build safety and reduce carbon emissions. 
Our V2X Vehicle-to-Road infrastructure has helped reduce traffic congestion time by 20% to 30%. Chongqing, which implemented Apollo V2X last year and opened the door for Apollo into Western China reengaged with us this year to make their smart transportation infrastructure 5G-enabled laying the foundation for our future roll-out of robotaxi ride-hailing.. 
Chengdu the capital of Sichuan and a leader in science and technology development recently partnered with Apollo to implement V2X too. 
Turning to Intelligent Driving, since its founding eight years ago, Apollo has accumulated over 6 million miles of Level 4 autonomous driving testing miles on the road and over 600 million miles of simulated testing. Apollo continues to be the leader in autonomous driving in China with our early investment, open platform strategy, and comprehensive technology infrastructure. 
With Apollo platform driving and operate – while Apollo platform driving can operate independently on vehicle sensors, it is uniquely empowered by Baidu’s HD Maps, our AI Cloud and Apollo Smart Transportation. The comprehensive data set and the integration with city smart transportation network, we believe will enable Apollo to offer better driving behavior and reduced accident rate. 
Following the opening up of highway testing for autonomous driving in January, Apollo received the permit to operate at night and under special weather conditions on public roads in Beijing. Apollo also received permits to pilot fully autonomous driving in Beijing, Cangzhou and Changsha. 
Apollo Go, China's first fully autonomous ride-hailing service, with no one in the driver seat is now open to the public at the Shougang Park, a Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics site rides are priced at RMB30 each.
In March, Apollo Go began to charge the robotaxi ride hailing in Cangzhou, based on the distance traveled starting with a minimum fare, similar to regular ride-hailing.
Jidu Auto, an intelligent EV company established in partnership with Geely has appointed Xia Yiping as CEO. Yiping previously served as CTO at Mobike and worked various positions at Fiat Chrysler and Ford. We welcome Yiping to the Baidu family and look forward to his contribution to innovate the smart EV sector. 
On Apollo Self Driving GAC Group joins Apollo's network of over 10 leading local and multinational automakers to install ASD services in its new vehicles.
According to China’s Insights Consultancy, a market research and consulting firm, the TAM for Apollo Intelligent Driving, which includes robotaxi riding-hailing EVs and self driving services for automakers will reach US$467 billion, almost nine times the size of our advertising TAM of $53 billion in 2025. 
Apollo platform powers Jidu and other automakers, as well as Apollo Go robotaxi. It is in a unique position to be well funded and widely adopted. Such coveted position has earned Baidu the only Chinese company selected for the leader category in autonomous driving by Guidehouse Insights previously known as Navigant Research, for the second consecutive year. 
Turning to Mobile Ecosystem. In March, Baidu App MAU reached 558 million. Creators on Baijiahao more than doubled and the number of Smart Mini Programs grow 74% from a year ago. Our AI building blocks, coupled with our marketing cloud continue to attract more third-party content and service providers on to our platform, which improves user experience. 
Merchants are adopting our Direct-To-Consumer model to get closer to their customers. Traditional ecommerce tends to accentuate its platform over the strengthening of individual brands and merchants.
Baidu on the other hand, empowers merchants to build their own online presence and grow their brands by leveraging our social and live streaming capabilities, ecommerce features, and AI tools from our marketing cloud. 
Our AI building blocks, coupled with marketing cloud help merchants acquire customers, better understand them, engage with them, and perform lifetime customer management. Such search to transaction, closed-loop experience, improved user stickiness resulting in daily logged on users on Baidu App reaching over 75%, that’s up 16 points from a year ago. 
On social and interest based communities. Our search users sometimes have questions on their search results with professional content providers like attorneys and designers opening enterprise accounts on Baijiahao, they are able to respond to search queries and interact directly with users. 8% of our top one such results now enable users to ask questions and interact with the original content provider. 
Baidu Health has attracted approximately 300,000 doctors and medical experts to provide in-depth authoritative content and online consultation to consumers. As our users adapt to more services on Baidu, we see a great opportunity to offer non-ad services on our own to meet the needs of our large user base. 
When you couple this with the robust growth of our AI business, non-advertising revenues could possibly exceed advertising revenue with Baidu Core, within Baidu Core in the next three years. 
With that, let me turn the call over to Herman to go through our financial highlights. 
Herman Yu 
Thank you, Robin. Hello everyone. Welcome to Baidu’s first quarter 2021 call. All monetary amounts used in my discussion are in RMB, unless stated otherwise.
In March, we listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange under the Ticker number (9888) raising US$3.1 billion. Two weeks later, we were added to the Hong Kong - the Hang Seng Tech Index, the Composite Index and the China Enterprise Index. 
Listing closer to our user base with strong brand and unique profile as a leading AI company with strong Internet foundation generates incremental interest for Baidu and increases our stock liquidity. 
Our retail tranche during the Hong Kong listing was 111 times oversubscribed and our daily trading liquidity on the two exchanges in aggregate average 8.4 million shares last week ADS adjusted and approximately US$1.6 billion in amounts, compared to say, 2.8 million average daily traded shares last September or approximately US$350 million in amount. 
That is an increase of 4.5 times in daily trading amount on Baidu over the past seven months. Sustainability is an important focus for Baidu. We have worked diligently on ESG and we are upgraded twice by MSCI last year. 
Greenpeace, a global environmental organization, published a report on China’s Cloud and Datacenter Companies ranked Baidu Top 3 based in Cloud Services and number one in the utilization of renewable energy, based on their April report entitled Clean Cloud: Tracking Renewable Energy Use in China's Tech Industry. 
Turning to financial highlights. For the first quarter of 2021, Baidu revenue reached RMB28.1 billion or US$4.3 billion, up 25% year-over-year driven by the growth of Baidu Core whose revenue reached RMB20.5 billion or US$3.1 billion, up 34% year-over-year. Non-advertising grew 70% year-over-year accounting for 21% of Baidu Core’s revenue. 
Let me give you more color on each area. AI Cloud was RMB2.8 billion, up 55% year-over-year and we expect our AI Cloud growth rate to accelerate in the future. Our cloud growth benefited from customers from the Internet media, financial services and other high tech sectors, as well as from the strong adoption of Apollo Smart Transportation by cities seeking to modernize digitalized transportation and network vehicles. 
Intelligent drive and OGI revenue also grew rapidly. Apollo Self Driving or ASD though a small base grew over five times from last year. ASD revenue is booked upon vehicle shipments and revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period if the service is provided over the air, in other words upgraded regularly. 
Revenue for Xiaodu smart devices and services saw robust double-digit growth in the first quarter. Online marketing revenue was up 27% year-over-year driven by Baidu App, growing over 30% year-over-year. Most of our top add vehicles performed well. CPM was up double-digits.
Managed Page grew - Managed Page reached 35% of Baidu Core's online marketing revenue, enforcement of our advertisers have adopted Baidu Marketing Cloud which is a one stop shop to purchase online marketing, build audience and leverage Baidu AI to enable user lifetime management. 
The strong adoption of our Managed Page and marketing cloud shows our customers’ preference and move from managing their own website to operating their hosted site on Baidu to better leverage Baidu’s advanced technology and tools to improve close transactions.
iQIYI revenue reached RMB 8 billion, up 4% year-over-year and its net losses narrowed to RMB1.3 billion, up - down from RMB2.9 billion last year. iQIYI subscribers reached 105.3 million, serving as a strong foundation to support their over 50 in-house studios and produce entertainment blockbuster originals.
Cost of revenues was RMB15 billion, up 2% year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in TAC and cost of goods sold, offset by a decrease in content costs and amortization/impairment of intangible assets. Baidu Core’s cost of revenues increased 15% year-over-year, as TAC revenues increased, while iQIYI’s cost of revenue decreased 10% year-over-year.
Operating expenses were RMB10.3 billion, up 25% year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in channel spending and promotion expenses, as well as R&D-related personnel expenses. SG&A for Baidu Core was up 58%, partially reflecting the ramp up of our sales force, especially to support the pipeline of our new AI business as we look out the next six to twelve months. 
In addition, we accrue for bad debt allowance on new AI business, which holds accounts receivable unlike our online marketing, which generates revenue mostly on a prepaid basis.
Non-GAAP operating income for Baidu and Baidu Core were RMB 4.4 billion and RMB 5.1 billion or US$773 million respectively. Non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu Core was 25%. Adjusted EBITDA for Baidu and for Baidu Core were RMB5.9 billion and RMB6.5 billion or US$990 million respectively. Adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu Core was 32%, compared to 30% last year.
Cash and short-term investments for Baidu and Baidu Core as of March 31, 2021 were RMB172.9 billion and RMB159.6 billion or US$24.4 billion respectively. 
Free cash flow for Baidu and excluding iQIYI were RMB2.6 billion and RMB4 billion or US$615 million respectively. Baidu Core had approximately 34,000 full-time employees as of March 31, 2021, up 18% from last year.
Turning to second quarter guidance. For the second quarter of 2021, Baidu expects revenue to be between RMB29.7 billion or US$4.5 billion and RMB32.5 billion or US$5 billion representing a growth rate between 14% and 25% year-over-year, which assumes that Baidu Core will grow between 20% and 33% year-over-year. 
This guidance does not give any potential contribution from the acquisition of YY Live. The above forecast reflects our current and preliminary view, which is subject to substantial uncertainty.
Before I turn the call back to the operator, let me summarize our first quarter results. We continue to see strong momentum in our business powered by our leading AI. Non-advertising revenue grew 70% from last year accounting for over one-fifth of Baidu Core revenue. China’s goal to drive innovation through technology will serve as a tailwind for our new AI business.
Embarking on the digitalization of transportation and connected vehicles is like investing in a new telecom network to drive economic growth and productivity, except this time it is on a transportation network and the connected computers are smart vehicles rather than smartphones.
Transportation is 16% of China’s economy. Thus, AI platforms that power smart transportation, autonomous driving and in-vehicle infotainment working in tandem can bring incredible operating efficiencies and convenience, as well as improve traffic safety, reduce carbon emission for the transportation sector. 
Apollo autonomous driving continues to be the leader in China with fully autonomous ride-hailing open to the public in Beijing. Apollo Go ride-hailing is now available to the public in three cities. We are quite encouraged that Apollo Go ride-hailing is gradually permitted to charge a fee, for example in Cangzhou, as well as in Beijing.
Over ten domestic and multinational automakers have signed up with Apollo to install ASD in the new vehicles, a recognition by the auto industry that partner with Apollo is the preferred choice versus committing to heavy investments in autonomous driving for the next decade or maybe two.
Apollo’s open platform and diversified monetization to support autonomous driving through ASD, Jidu Auto and Apollo Go ride-hailing put Apollo in a unique position to be well-funded and well - widely adopted. 
IDC ranks Baidu Number 1 in autonomous solutions for public cloud. By focusing on AI PaaS, our AI Cloud is differentiated in the market. We are seeing the information - implementation of our AI PaaS drawing repeat purchases and over the long run, we expect our AI Power business to have higher margin as we build on our PaaS and SaaS business, compared to pure IaaS players.
Advertising revenue growth was solid, up 27% year-over-year. Merchants are adopting our direct-to-customer model to get closer to their customers and Baidu’s open platform model to accentuate the merchants by allowing them to build their brands on Baidu, access their own user data, and leverage Baidu’s AI powered cloud services is a huge opportunity for our mobile ecosystem.
ESG is an area that we focus on, in addition to leading the industry in cloud and datacenter construction. We hope to contribute to the sustainability in a big way as we help cities across China deploy smart transportation to significantly improve the flow of internal combustion engines and promote the crossover to EVs. 
Baidu is also developing smart EVs, empowering automakers with intelligent driving services and providing robotaxi ride-hailing and Robobuses, which are all powered by EV. Baidu returned US$300 million to shareholders under the 2020 share repurchase program this year, bringing the cumulative repurchase from last year to US$2.2 billion. 
We are confident about our future on the strong profitability of our search and feed business and how we are using the AI technology developed from this business to fuel growth in the new AI business, which along with our other non-ad business has a TAM ten times the size of our online marketing business and three times the CAGR growth through 2025, even when you exclude robotaxi ride-hailing according to CIC. 
Operator, with that let’s now open the call for questions. 
Question-And-Answer Session 
Operator
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from the line of Alicia Yap from Citigroup. Please go ahead. 
Alicia Yap 
Hi. Thank you. Good evening management. Robin and Herman, thanks for taking my questions. Congrats on the solid results and guidance. My questions is related to cloud – your AI Cloud business. So, wondering if management could share some of the operating metrics for example, the total numbers of the cloud customers and also the industry vertical that you are – major in. 
And then also, for example, like, how much or how big it is coming from the government or the big enterprise versus the smaller semi-merchants in terms of using your cloud business. And also, the current loss ratio that if you can share and how you envision your cloud business to grow into – in the coming quarters and years? Thank you. 
Robin Li
Hello. Hi Alicia. 
Alicia Yap 
Hello. 
Robin Li
So, so – yes, you guys hear me okay? 
Alicia Yap 
Yes. 
Herman Yu
Yes. So, the way we look at our cloud business – the way we look at our cloud business, as you know, in our AI Cloud there is several segments to our business. Number one is our infrastructure cloud where we have IaaS, where we have PaaS and where we have SaaS, right. In that segment, we have our key accounts and then we have our SMEs which are much smaller cloud providers. 
So, you have your typical key accounts and then we have SMEs, we have many, many customers there. In addition, we also have our customers for our smart transportation in that space. So, that will be the key cities the top tier cities that we are in China. We don’t have this exact number of prepared for you for just today, but you can think of our segment it’s mostly smart cities in mostly key accounts in our AI Cloud. 
Our top sectors are things like, Internet, media, financial services, and transportation. And when you look at how we are growing, I think, last quarter, we said we are growing 67% year-over-year. This quarter, we are growing little bit somewhere 55%, part of the reason is because, if you recall last year, COVID-19 started toward the end of January. 
So, we did – we had a pretty good base in Q1 because, typically, if you think about COVID-19 affected us a lot, but when you think about the beginning of the quarter, we had a higher base. So, the way I would look at it is, we think that we can continue to grow at the way we did last quarter, higher than what we have 55% this quarter. We think that we see in our pipeline that that we should be able to grow at a higher rate. 
Alicia Yap 
Okay. Thank you, Herman. 
Operator
Thank you for the questions. Next question comes from the line of Piyush Mubayi of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead. 
Piyush Mubayi 
Hi, Robin, Herman. Thank you for taking my questions. When I look at the core, the core seems to have bounced back very nicely in both the first quarter as well as based on the guidance you are providing for the second quarter and the marketing revenue was up 27% I suspect in the second quarter based on the high end of the range at 33%. It would be a similar number. Could you just take us through some of the verticals where you are seeing spending come back very nicely and try to – so that we can try and see whether this is sustainable through the rest of the year with the clear emergence of a trend coming back very nicely. That’s the first question. 
And if I might slip in a second question, you talked about the TAM for ride-hailing, I wonder if you could just take us through what your strategy is and how deep you want to go? Thank you. 
Robin Li 
I will ask Dou to answer your first question and I’ll take on the second one.
Dou Shen 
Okay. For the first one, actually we see pretty good performance for most with the top ad verticals actually, not just by a single one. Actually, talking about the performance of the ad revenue, I think it’s not only because of the low base of last year’s first quarter. I want to actually give the credit to the three building blocks we have been working on in the past three years.
As Robin mentioned in the prepared remarks, Baijiahao and Smart Mini program and also the Managed Pages, they all grew quickly and these building blocks actually, they provided high quality content and also the services to the users, so that the users you know they can not only get new information before, but they can also get the service in the closed-loop experience.
Now with that, the users, they can complete their tasks like book a flight or buy a book in one stop - step instead of talking away. So all these building blocks actually they contribute to the monetization capability we have built. Especially for Baidu AVP, so, we can see it actually grows even faster than the average 27% - it’s more than 30%. 
So, with that actually we are seeing pretty good performance for all the verticals on the way down the road.
Robin Li 
Yes. So for the TAM of Apollo, it’s huge. It’s very large, and right now, it’s growing very fast. If you recall, we started to invest in autonomous driving roughly eight years ago. Over the years, Apollo has morphed into a very comprehensive platform that supports all kinds of business models and directions that includes robotaxi, ride-hailing that includes, software services provider for that OEMs and also that includes building our own smart EVs.
I think all of this effort, well, feedback data and other kinds of market signals to the Apollo platform making Apollo a stronger and a better platform for both autonomous driving and smart transportation. We are very excited that each of this new directions including the smart transportation project we are building for many, many cities, because it all can be integrated together and provide a much more efficient transportation system for the cities, for the society and provide better experience for the drivers and the consumers. And it all comes together and we are very happy we invested early and we start to reap the benefit of this direction.
Operator
Thank you for the questions. Next questions comes from Alex Yao of JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Alex Yao 
Hi, good evening, management. Thank you for taking my question. I have a couple of follow-up questions on the cloud. Robin, you mentioned deployment of V2X infrastructure will play – will generate network effects to your broader Apollo strategy. Can you elaborate that network effect little bit more? And also, what strategic benefits will the broader Apollo ecosystem benefit from the build-out of your V2X infrastructure in China?
Then the near-term financial question is, Herman, you - I think you mentioned despite of the strong – in addition to the strong growth momentum in first quarter, you expect the cloud revenue to further accelerate into the coming quarters. Can you talk about the fundamental driver to the strong revenue growth momentum, particularly in the Smart City market? 
What is your competitive edge or who do you see as the biggest competitor? And what are the unique value proposition you bring to this market segment? Thank you.
Robin Li 
Yes. For the V2X project, it’s quite clear that the sensors build on the roads can communicate with vehicles. Therefore vehicles, be it with autonomous driving capabilities or not, they are connected so they can get signals from the infrastructure and therefore become more informed when deciding on their driving behavior. If th