Baidu, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIDU) Q2 2020 Earnings Call August 13, 2020  9:15 PM ET
Executives
Juan Lin - Baidu, Inc.
Robin Li - Baidu, Inc.
Herman Yu - Baidu, Inc.
Dou Shen - Baidu, Inc.
Analysts
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Alicia Yap - Citigroup Global Markets Asia Ltd.
James Lee - Mizuho Securities USA LLC
Gregory Zhao - Barclays Capital, Inc.
Tian X. Hou - T. H. Capital LLC
Binnie Wong - The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd.
Operator
Hello, and thank you for standing by for Baidu's Second Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After management's prepared remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today's conference Juan Lin, Baidu's Director of Investor Relations.
Juan Lin - Baidu, Inc.
Hello, everyone, and welcome to Baidu's second quarter 2020 earnings conference call. Baidu's earnings release was distributed earlier today, and you can find a copy on our website as well as on newswire services. On the call today, we have Robin Li, our Chief Executive Officer; Herman Yu, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dou Shen, our Executive Vice President in charge of Baidu's Mobile Ecosystem Group, our Search and Feed business. After our prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session.
Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Potential risks and uncertainties, include but are not limited to those outlined in our public filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 20-F. Baidu does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements except as required under applicable law.
Our earnings press release and this call include discussions of certain unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. We have made minor adjustments to our non-GAAP measures and retroactively applied these changes for comparison purposes. Our press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited most directly comparable GAAP measures and is available on our IR website at ir.baidu.com. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will also be available on Baidu's IR website.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Robin.
Robin Li - Baidu, Inc.
Hello, everyone. Baidu's total revenues in the second quarter reached RMB 26.0 billion, declining 1% year-over-year versus 7%...
[Technical Difficulty] (02:49-03:17)
Operator
Excuse me, presenter, we do not have audio from your side. Can you unmute locally, please?
Robin Li - Baidu, Inc.
All right. Let me repeat what I just said, Baidu's total revenues in the second quarter reached RMB 26.0 billion, declining 1% over year versus the 7% decline in the first quarter. Baidu Core contributed to the rebound with the second quarter revenue growing 24% sequentially, Baidu Core's online marketing services has demonstrated steady improvement, since the drop in February, with encouraging recovery across many industries.
The second quarter, however, was also met with temporary setbacks such as new waves of COVID-19 cases appearing in Beijing and other areas of China, where Level 2 pandemic precautionary measures were again put in place. Fast forward to latter half of July, the situation has been improving since then, as COVID-19 cases subsided. This positive moves forward, coupled with some temporary setbacks, leave us cautiously optimistic about the business climate into the second half. While COVID-19, geopolitical tension and other phenomena plaguing the economy may continue to bring about hiccups. The opportunities that AI has presented us are getting more exciting.

Our foray into in-app search three years ago is proving to redefine how content and services are consumed, and allow Baidu to be competitive force to enable long-tail SMEs to do business online. More than two-thirds of Baidu App users are logging in daily, which not only demonstrate user stickiness, but also indicates a greater sense of identity and belonging on Baidu of users. The CPM gap between Baidu App and unit traffic continues to widen in-app revenue mix up the majority of search and feed revenue, and daily in-app search queries outgrowing the total search market in China.
Traditional search through a browser direct users away from Baidu, whereas in-app search aggregate third-party content and services onto our platform for a unique closed loop experience. Users come to Baidu to form relationships with merchants, through follow, messaging, live video, shop and so on. With users remaining on Baidu after the landing page, we are in a better position to improve user insight and provide a superior user experience such as verifying the merchants, monitoring the content and services on Baidu for better quality, strengthening Baidu's vertical and community offerings, and enabling users to follow, interact and transact as merchants.
From the merchants' perspective, our customers no longer rely on Baidu only for traffic. They are able to build a fan base through our building blocks of BJH accounts, Smart Mini Program and Managed Page and increase interaction with their fan base through live videos, coupon giveaways and closed-loop transactions; and leverage our marketing services platform for conversion improvement, lookalike targeting and repeat purchases.
Baidu's value proposition extending from selling traffic to also provide marketing cloud services to empower merchants, consumer relationship management capabilities makes us more competitive by leveraging Baidu's AI and cloud capabilities. The increasing liveliness of our users, their participation in live broadcasting, e-commerce and other activities provides Baidu an opportunity to leverage our existing traffic to move beyond marketing services into memberships, online games and other revenue streams.
Our new AI businesses, Xiaodu smart devices continues to sell well, despite the current economic situation causing headwind to smartphones and other consumer electronics. Baidu Cloud is leveraging Baidu's leading AI to provide intelligent cloud solutions to enterprises to help them digitize and do more with AI computing. Apollo continues to make advances in autonomous driving and commercialization, particularly in the area of smart transportation, which stands to benefit from the new infrastructure initiative that China is pushing to reignite the economy. iQIYI weathered another COVID-19 impacted quarter with positive growth year-over-year reinforcing the belief that online entertainment can fare well in difficult economic times.
Let's begin Baidu's second quarter review with MEG. Baidu App DAUs reached 204 million in June. MAUs were over 0.5 billion, which puts Baidu App in an elite class of Top 6 apps in China ahead of Douyin, Kuaishou, Weibo and other feed apps according to QuestMobile. In-app user engagement on Baidu App remains strong with in-app search queries growing 28% year-over-year in the second quarter, thanks to improving user experience and the expansion of third-party content and services on our platform.
Let me talk about video social services and monetization for MEG. First on video, Baidu App is becoming a powerful distributor of video content. Video consumption from search increased 81% year-over-year and video make up about 70% of the feed consumed. For Baidu's set of six knowledge products, such as Baidu WIKI, Baidu Knows, video contributed to almost a third of the page views, up from less than 20% at the beginning of the year. Our efforts in fortifying the content on Baidu with video is showing incredible results. For example, in the area of healthcare, PGC videos expanded rapidly, resulting in total video views surging over fivefold from the prior quarter.

Live streaming is becoming a popular way for professionals to share their content on Baidu. We are making live streaming easy to conduct on our building blocks, especially for non-entertainment oriented content creators. For example, daily non-entertainment live video sessions on Baidu App surged by more than fourfold and monthly viewership grow by 80% in the last three months. Topical live sessions, such as Baidu Wiki Virtual Zoo, Summer Art Festival and Wandering through Civilization Season 2, attracted over 40 million viewership in the second quarter. Industry experts are also live streaming on Baidu. For example, live video sessions by healthcare experts nearly tripled in the last three months even as COVID-19 subsides in China.
Second, on social, we're making it easier for users to interact with content creators and service providers on Baidu through our building blocks. The versatility of Baidu building blocks allows our users, for example, to leave comments on their search results to interact with content creators or with others who are interested in the same content, in essence building topical communities. Users can follow the content creators for future informational updates. We recently integrated BJH accounts with Baidu knowledge products and interactions between users and content creators within Baidu knowledge products increased 78% in the last three months.
Third, on services, in the second quarter, we added service centers in Baidu App, which allows users to access services from a wide range of merchants and government organizations through a single sign-up and keep track of their transactions with various service providers through our My Wallet and My Message Center. Through My Service Center, users can perform a host of third-party services such as buying tickets for tourist destinations and train rides, making reservations for restaurants and car repairs, checking express delivery status and paying utility bills, all in Baidu App (13:41), without leaving – without having to download the host apps. Baidu's service offerings will continue to expand as new players join our Smart Mini Program network.
First on monetization, despite tough macro environment in the first half of this year, Baidu App revenue grow both in Q1 and in Q2. Baidu App search traffic continues to see healthy growth and the CPM gap between in-app search and browser search continues widening, validating that Baidu's in-app strategy is coming to fruition.
On the CRM side when customers buy traffic from Baidu, they can login to our marketing cloud platform which is upgraded regularly with new features, tools and technology advances to help them improve ad conversion. By enabling our marketing service customers to perform consumer relationship management, we are transforming search from directing traffic to enabling customers to engage and improve the lifetime value of the consumers they acquire on Baidu.
Let me talk about how our building blocks is making verticals and communities more compelling. The healthcare and wellness industry makes up almost a tenth of China's GDP. Baidu Health is fortunate to be a top healthcare and wellness platform in China, and our strong brand has gained further recognition amidst the spread of COVID-19 into a pandemic. Year to date, top-tier doctors joining Baidu Health has increased 87% and our partnership covers the majority of the top hospitals in China.
The aggregation of quality healthcare content on Baidu from healthcare expert newsfeed to short video, to live broadcasting has increased our healthcare traffic and resulted in online doctor consultation more than doubling from last year. We see such progress to naturally lead to offerings of online prescription, dietary supplements and other related products and services over time to enable more people in China to access quality healthcare and wellness services.

Baidu building blocks are also helping to form topical communities. For example, we hosted approximately 100 live broadcasting sessions conducted by experts on national cultural heritage in the second quarter, which created a community following for jade, antique jewelries and collectables. Various stakeholders in the community sprouted up on Baidu, such as collectable validation specialists, merchants using live broadcasting, e-commerce and other feature sets to enable long-term merchants to better monetize on Baidu.
The versatility of Baidu's building blocks is also allowing a strong community of students and parents to form on Baidu. For example, students can watch the 400-plus live broadcasting sessions offered by over 100 universities and educational experts from our feed and Smart Mini Programs as well as check their entrance exam scores, research suitable universities, and learn about popular majors based on Baidu's big data.
While at an early stage, we see community formation from the interplay of Baidu building blocks as a way to further enrich Baidu's position as a leading knowledge and information-centric Internet platform. Empowering content and service providers to monetize on Baidu will ensure a robust and growing content and services ecosystem, paving the way for additional monetization opportunities in the future.
Moving to DuerOS, Xiaodu series of smart display and smart speakers was the best-selling in speaker category on JD.com during June 18 Shopping Festival. Xiaodu series of smart devices is building a strong brand in the marketplace with Baidu's leading AI capabilities such as voice search and multi-input modality. DuerOS skills store now offers over 4,000 skills in wide breadth of content, including children learning online games videos.
Turning to Baidu Cloud and AI Services, we are at an early stage of intelligent transformation empowering traditional industries through the use of AI in their operational data to increase productivity and improve their service offerings. Businesses are coming to the realization that they have to innovate through AI, or be left behind.
While many cloud enterprises are chasing after scale in areas such as CDN and aaS (19:40), Baidu Cloud is positioned as a one-stop shop for our customers' cloud needs, and more importantly, differentiating through intelligent solutions by leveraging Baidu's leading AI, paving the way for long-term growth. For example, Baidu formed a strategic partnership with China National Building Materials Group, the parent of 13 listed companies, with the aim to leverage Baidu AI PaaS, equipped with big data and IoT edge computing capabilities, to provide intelligent logistics, intelligent factory and industrial autonomous driving. CNBM Group plans to use Baidu AI PaaS paired with Baidu intelligent map to improve the routing efficiency of its logistics vehicles and track vehicles whereabouts to improve operational efficiency and reduce production costs.
Baidu's AI open platform is built on Baidu Cloud, offering over 260 AI capabilities, which is tapped at peak a trillion times a day by over 2.1 million developers. This gives Baidu incredible insight on how AI is best used. And at the World Artificial Intelligence Conference recently, Baidu ERNIE, our natural language processing framework, earned highest honorary recognition, the SAIL award. IDC recently published a report ranking Baidu Cloud number 1 in China's AI public cloud market in 2019 based on revenue, AI cloud product portfolio, APIs used by developers.
Turning to Apollo, we are making stride in autonomous driving, smart transportation as well as connected vehicles. China's new infrastructure initiative is promoting municipalities to adopt smart transportation and Apollo stands to benefit by providing local governments this V2X infrastructure which of course add-on features including smart signaling, smart parking and smart buses. To-date, we have seen multiple RMB 100 million plus contracts which reflect how municipal governments are intelligently using technology to improve the living standard of citizens in their community. DuerOS for auto is also a promising market with electrical vehicles becoming over and becoming ever more popular.

Apollo robotaxi operations in Beijing, Changsha and Cangzhou are expanding into larger networks and more complex road conditions such as downtown streets. In working with Apollo customers, we are gaining valuable experience in the operation of autonomous driving leading us to believe that the arrival of 5G will bring new opportunities for Apollo. For example, enabling the monitoring of driverless fleet from remote which will increase the efficiency of auto operation to one person, per multiple vehicles.
In Q2, we completed the 145,000 square feet Apollo Park in Beijing, probably the world's largest autonomous driving and V2X test facilities which supports associated functions including testing, operational command center, Big Data cloud control, vehicle warehousing, maintenance and collaboration.
With that let me turn the call over to Herman to go through the financial highlight.
Herman Yu - Baidu, Inc.
Thanks Robin. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Baidu's second quarter 2020 call. All monetary amounts used in my discussion are in renminbi unless stated otherwise. Baidu's total revenues reached RMB 26 billion or $2.7 billion decreasing 1% year-over-year which is an improvement from last quarter's 7% decline. Our business improvement mainly came from Baidu core whose revenue reached RMB 18.9 billion or $2.7 billion in the second quarter decreasing 3% year-over-year which is a significant improvement from the 13% decline last quarter.
Travel, financial services, franchising, healthcare and auto underperformed in the second quarter though we are seeing a meaningful recovery in healthcare and franchising along with real estate and machinery. In-app revenue grew double digits year-over-year in the second quarter and made up more than half of our search and feed revenues. The robustness of in-app revenue and its increasing revenue proportion will be an important driver going forward.
Our new AI businesses also saw strong growth, up double digits year-over-year with strength coming from Baidu cloud and smart transportation. Cloud revenue reached RMB 2 billion in the second quarter and we expect cloud and smart transportation to be important revenue drivers for us going forward.
iQIYI revenue reached RMB 7.8 billion, up 4% year-over-year. iQIYI subscribers reached 104.9 million and its membership revenue was up 19% year-over-year. iQIYI's app business was down 28% year-over-year, impacted by the challenging macro environment in the delayed releases of top hit.
Non-GAAP cost of revenues was RMB 12.9 billion, down 19% year-over-year, primarily due to a decrease in traffic acquisition costs, sales tax and surcharges and cost of goods sold. Traffic acquisition costs decreased primarily due to a double-digit decline in TAC revenue. Our strategy on TAC continues to be optimized in profit rather than growing TAC revenue at a loss. Non-GAAP SG&A expenses were RMB 3.9 billion, down 18% year-over-year, primarily due to less channel spending, promotional marketing and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in personnel related expenses.
Non-GAAP R&D expenses were RMB 3.7 billion, down 2% year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating income for Baidu was RMB 5.6 billion, up 187% year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating income for Baidu Core was RMB 6.5 billion, or $917 million, up 86% year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu Core was 34%, up 16 points from last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was RMB 7.0 billion or RMB 7 billion, up 109% year-over-year and adjusted EBITDA for Baidu Core was RMB 7.8 billion or $1.1 billion, up 63% year-over-year. And adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu Core was 41%, up 17 points from last year.
As of June 30, 2020, cash and short-term investments were RMB 154.1 billion and cash and short-term investments for Baidu Core were RMB 144.6 billion or $20.5 billion. Free cash flow was RMB 7.3 billion and free cash flow for Baidu Core was RMB 8.8 billion or $1.2 billion. Baidu Core had approximately 29,300 full-time equivalents as of June, down 2% from last year.

During the second quarter, we returned $540 million to shareholders under the 2020 stock repurchase programs. And cumulatively, over the last two years, we repurchased approximately $1.9 billion. Our board recently approved a change to our 2020 share repurchase plans increasing the buyback of $1 billion to $3 billion which is effective through the end of 2020.
Turning to third quarter guidance, we expect total revenue to be between RMB 26.3 billion and RMB 28.7 billion representing a growth rate of negative 6% to 2% year-over-year. Our guidance assumes Baidu Core will grow between negative 7% and positive 3% year-over-year. These forecasts are our current and preliminary view, which is subject to substantial uncertainties.
Before I turn the call to the operator, let me summarize our second quarter achievements. Our strategy to strengthen Baidu's mobile ecosystem through our building blocks and marketing cloud platform is bearing fruit. More than two-thirds of Baidu app users are logging in daily. In-app search queries continue to grow above 20% year-over-year and CPM in in-app search continues to widen against traditional browser search. Content and services are expanding at an incredible rate on Baidu. Baijiahao content network now holds 3.4 million publisher accounts, up 52% year-over-year and the number of Smart Mini Programs joining Baidu network grew over 5 folds from last year.
The increase in services along with improved social, video and monetization feature sets, live streaming, shopping is making Baidu platform more lively and interactive and more conducive to doing business for long tail SMEs. Verticals and communities are forming which further enhances closed-loop transactions and down the marketing funnel opportunities in the future. In-app revenue is growing double digits, making up a majority of search and feed revenues. In-app revenue, together with new AI businesses, will be respectable growth engines for Baidu in the years to come.
Our strong execution is also reflected by our results of increasing non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu Core by 16 points year-over-year and adjusted EBITDA margin for Baidu Core by 17 points. Such strong operating results from Baidu Core is an indication of Baidu's prudent approach to investments and growing quality revenues. Over time, we believe the true measure of value creation is the ability to increase cash flow for our shareholders.
Operator, with that, let's now open the call to questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. Frist question comes from the line of Piyush from Goldman. Please go ahead.
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC
Thank you, Robin and Herman, for taking my question. I really have one question centered around how your business has been recovering into the third quarter. You mentioned, Herman, that medical has started to come into its own, which is very encouraging. Could you give us a sense of what percentage or some scale of how much it's come back and how much further we can expand it to – expect it to come back in the coming quarters based on the guidance you've set for 3Q? And related to the guidance and the medical, you talked about some of the other verticals where you are in the earlier stage of recovery. Could you give us a feel for how long that might take to come back and, essentially, give us a feel for how the broader economy has been performing?
And I know you said one question only, but there is a pronounced improvement in your gross margin in 2Q over the first quarter and versus the past, is that and the gains you're seeing at the operating profit level sustainable? Thank you.
Herman Yu - Baidu, Inc.
Hi, Piyush. Wow, that's a mouthful of questions here. Let me see what I can do. With regards to healthcare, as I mentioned, when you look at on a year-over-year basis, we're still down significantly double-digits; but, when you look at how we are recovering on a sequential basis, we come back pretty significantly. And we expect, at this current rate, healthcare should probably be as good as last year, probably sometime in Q3 given the current trajectory.

We're also seeing several other verticals at the same trend and that's, why when you look at our guidance in Q3, you are seeing us doing better on a year-over-year basis than Q2. And Q2 is – assuming we hit midpoint, and then Q2 is much better than Q1. So I think on a whole that the trend is right. And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks, given that it is a COVID-19 pandemic, we have seen a second wave coming back to Beijing. So the assumption here is that we will continue to have smooth sailing and that we don't have further ways to disrupt the economy, because part of our business relies on the fact that stores need to be open so they'll come to Baidu to buy traffic to their stores.
With regards to our gross margin and our operating margin, I think that you can probably expect that the savings that we had in the last few quarters – as we talked about this last year in May we promised you that we would go through our operations and actually go through and look at where should we put our investments and place our investment that would have higher ROIs. We followed through six month after that and you saw, starting from Q4 last year, that we had a pretty lean P&L. We've been going through with this strategy in Q1 and, again, in Q2, so you should expect those to continue into Q3 and Q4.
I would say that part of Q2 cost structure, though, is the fact that – several things to look at, for example sales and marketing. That's a function of whether we can actually spend, right? If our revenue is coming hard, it probably would be hard for us to spend on our marketing, whether it's promotions or whether it's trying to buy more app installation, because less smartphones are being sold. So as the economy gets back, if there's more app installation that we could buy with higher – good ROIs, we're going to continue to buy.
And then, similarly, going into Q3, Q4, it was harder to do interviews, especially when people cannot come into the office. But as China opens up, we're going to be able to do that and we're going to able to hire and go (36:27) according to our budget. So I would say that going from Q2 to Q3, you should expect our cost of sales and operating expenses on a non-GAAP basis for Baidu Core to increase probably 10 to – in the teens. I would say that's probably a good way to gauge this.
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC
Thank you.
Herman Yu - Baidu, Inc.
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you for the questions. Next question comes from the line of Eddie Leung of Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Good morning, guys; just two questions. Number one, could you comment on your thought about the potential combination of Tencent and one of your competitors, would that change the competitive landscape, and how Baidu can address the potential changes? And then, number two, probably more a housekeeping question, you mentioned that the COVID situation in Beijing affected the second quarter Core business, so just wondering could help us to kind of like get a sense of the potential impact and how much exposure of the Core business to the advertisers in Beijing for example? Thank you.
Dou Shen - Baidu, Inc.
Thank you for the question, Eddie. I'll take the first one. So it is actually not new between Sogou and Tencent. They have been working together for a long while. I think it is not new in terms of the collaboration. So actually in the mobile era, so users usually remember each app by its key feature and Baidu app clearly has established the brand as the number one general search engine. So I think such brand awareness is very hard to duplicate. And what's more for Baidu, we have moved to the Baidu app strategy to build our ecosystem within the app. So with that actually we already improved the user experience from the traditional general search engine. It's not just for user to get information, but also help the users to experience the closed-loop experience to complete the tasks in their mind. They are not only for service but also even for shop online. So the more we build our ecosystem and the more good features we can present to the users. So with that I think Baidu will keep leading the innovation in the search market and keep doing well.

Herman Yu - Baidu, Inc.
Let me add to what Dou just said. a) So it's important to the different product positioning, right. When you have – for example, WeChat is a social network. So the purpose of social network is to get people together, where you try to connect people with other people that are known. The purpose of search is not trying to connect people to people, it's trying to connect people to a certain content, whether it's text, whether it's a photo, whether it's a video. So when you go, for example, into a social network you have their news feed and what you want to do is, it's usually trying to very short and you wanted to just kind of get a very quick update and you want to go a lot of various feeds. Whereas when you're going to search sometimes you're interested in a topic as we mentioned in prepared remarks by Robin. You have people listening to live broadcasting for maybe an hour on a certain topic. You'd want just very rich content. Usually it's from whether it's a social account, whether it's from certain apps. And we have a Managed Page whether it's on website. So, the more information you have on that specific content, the more deeper you could dive in that person who is d