Baidu, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIDU) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call February 17, 2021  8:15 PM ET
Company Participants
Juan Lin - Director, IR
Robin Li - Co-Founder, Chairman & CEO
Herman Yu - CFO
Conference Call Participants
Alicia Yap - Citigroup 
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs Group
James Lee - Mizuho Securities
Jerry Liu - UBS Investment Bank
Alex Yao - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Gregory Zhao - Barclays Bank
Natalie Wu - Haitong International
Tian Hou - T.H. Capital
(Transcript provided to Seeking Alpha by the company.)
Operator
Hello ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by for Baidu’s fourth quarter and full year 2020 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After management’s prepared remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Today’s conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to your host for today’s conference, Juan Lin, Baidu’s director of investor relations.
Juan Lin
Hello everyone and welcome to Baidu’s fourth quarter and full year 2020 earnings conference call. Baidu’s earnings release was distributed earlier today and you can find a copy on our website as well as on newswire services. 
On the call today, we have Robin Li, our co-founder and chief executive officer, Herman Yu, our chief financial officer, and Dou Shen, our executive vice president in charge of search and feed. After our prepared remarks, we will hold a Q&A session.
Please note that the discussion today will contain forward-looking statements made under the “safe harbor” provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Potential risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those outlined in our public filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 20-F. Baidu does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, except as required under applicable law.
Our earnings press release and this call include discussions of certain unaudited non-GAAP financial measures. We have made minor adjustments to our non-GAAP measures and retroactively applied these changes for comparison purposes. Our press release contains a reconciliation of the unaudited non-GAAP measures to the unaudited most directly comparable GAAP measures and is available on our IR website at ir.baidu.com.
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. In addition, a webcast of this conference call will also be available on Baidu’s IR website.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Robin.
Robin Li
Good morning, everyone.
Baidu delivered another solid quarter in Q4, with Baidu Core revenue reaching RMB 23.1 billion, or US$3.5 billion, up 6% year over year and up 8% quarter on quarter. The latter was much higher than our historical flattish or low single-digit growth from Q3 to Q4. In addition to the improvement of macroeconomic conditions in China, we are benefiting from the digitalization of industrial Internet. 
Baidu Core non-advertising revenue in the fourth quarter grew 52% year over year to an annualized run rate of USD $2.6 billion, driven by the convergence of AI solutions, cloud services and consumer Internet. Such convergence is expected to accelerate into the next decade and Baidu stands to benefit from it.
Let me elaborate on the trends that we are seeing, starting from smart transportation. China aims to raise its global competitiveness in the transport sector through aggressive infrastructure building. The Chinese government is promoting a multi-year plan to install smart transportation networks in cities with sensors and cameras on public roads, connecting vehicles with road side units to foster safer driving, improve throughputs, and reduce carbon emissions. Such government initiative encourages municipal governments to shift their budgets toward a more software defined transportation network. Apollo’s strong brand in intelligent driving and our holistic approach to smart transportation, make us well suited to capture the opportunities in smart transportation infrastructure development. 
For example, Baidu signed a strategic partnership with Guangzhou in southern China, to deploy the world’s first multi-modal autonomous driving Mobility as a Service, or MaaS, platform. Utilizing Apollo robotaxi and robobus fleets, Guangzhou begins this month to allow commuters in the Huangpu district to call up public transport services on demand, in lieu of taxis, ride hailing and other traditional gasoline-powered public transport services. The Guangzhou smart transportation project takes advantage of Baidu’s leading autonomous driving technologies and Baidu cloud’s strong technology infrastructure, as well as leveraging the reach of Baidu App and Baidu Maps, to enable locals easy access to Apollo MaaS. 
For enterprise cloud, we are seeing ad customers subscribing to Baidu cloud, due to our strong Internet foundation. For example, a major e-commerce company and existing ad customer began using our cloud services a year ago. In the past year, the ad customer saw its business grow to massive scale. When the customer realized that Baidu AI Cloud was able to support businesses with over one hundred million daily users and enable them to expand rapidly, the ad customer increased its purchase of Baidu cloud services by 82X from a year ago. Over time, we believe Baidu AI Cloud stands to benefit from our existing advertiser base of hundreds of thousands of enterprises, as well as our provider neutrality status, in the face of enterprise customers adopting multi-cloud provider strategy.
From these examples, we can see the strategic advantage of concurrently operating in the AI solutions, cloud services and Internet markets, as enterprises and the public sector embrace digital transformation, to strengthen and expand their relationships with their customers and constituents online. As we enter the next decade, Baidu is well positioned as a leading AI company with a strong Internet foundation, to seize the huge market opportunities in cloud services, autonomous driving, smart transportation, and other AI-powered areas. 
Turning to Q4 operating highlights. Let me start with AI Cloud. Baidu cloud continues to be No. 1 in China’s AI public cloud market, per IDC’s latest report, marking the third time that Baidu has topped the list. Baidu AI Cloud offers a full suite of cloud services and solutions, and is differentiated in the market with our use of AI to power cloud solutions and improve our customers’ operational efficiency and service level. 
Our AI solutions are demonstrating scalability and replicability across multiple industry sectors. For example, our AI call center solution, which uses Baidu Brain to handle customer calls with conversational AI, is drawing repeat purchases. Our first key customer, a major telecom operator, has followed up with two more purchases of our AI call center and installed them in their customer service centers nationwide. As we strive for customer satisfaction and best in class solutions, our AI call center solution has successfully expanded from telecom into other sectors, including airline, financial services, energy and automobile. Through greater industry adoption, model training time has dropped by more than 50%, and project implementation has been shortened to one month.
In the area of vertical cloud, the smart transportation project with Guangzhou serves as a lighthouse project for other cities to follow. The deployment of Apollo MaaS allows commuters to order robotaxi and robobus in place of taxi rides and other public transportation. The implementation of V2X smart road infrastructure equips 102 intersections and the streets in the Knowledge City District of Guangzhou with cameras and sensors, enabling better traffic management. Commercial vehicles entering the vicinity are installing DuerOS powered rearview mirrors, to enable traffic violation enforcement, even if the license plate of a violating vehicle is covered by mud.
The Guangzhou project uses Apollo ACE transportation engine, which, in essence, is a transportation cloud solution. It processes traffic information from Apollo MaaS and V2X, DuerOS connected vehicles and Baidu Maps. It provides traffic agencies better information to improve traffic management and transportation services, and it enables Apollo, and other compatible vehicles better understanding of surrounding traffic conditions. 
Similarly, we recently signed a second contract with the city of Baoding, to expand the coverage of Apollo smart transportation in their city. Our strategic partnerships with Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Chongqing, to name a few, to provide smart transportation is becoming an important milestone in the development of modern cities, serving as a means for the public sector to use AI to improve metropolitan traffic, public transportation and air quality. 
Turning to Intelligent Driving. We continue to invest aggressively in self driving technology for passenger vehicles and robotaxi fleet management. 
Apollo was again ranked No. 1 in China for autonomous driving, according to the 2020 Beijing Autonomous Vehicles Road Test Report. The report is highly respected in the industry as Beijing Traffic Authority closely monitors autonomous driving test miles.
Apollo accumulated test miles reached 4.3 million in December. Apollo has been granted China’s first driverless testing permit and is the only Chinese company to be granted driverless testing permit from both California and China. In terms of autonomous driving operational experience, Apollo robotaxi and robobus fleets have provided over 210,000 rides to the public, as of December 2020. 
We are proud that DuerOS for Auto, our operating system powering auto infotainments, has been installed in over 1 million new vehicles last year, pointing to two market trends: 
1) Mobile, home and in-vehicle Internet are converging. Baidu’s Internet platform, designed to draw synergy across usage platforms, enables DuerOS for Auto to leverage the large developer community of Baidu Smart Mini Program, to populate its skills store. At the same time, consumers benefit from the consistency and familiarity of DuerOS skills developed from the mobile and home environment.
2) New car buyers are turning to best-in-class self-driving capabilities, so that they can do more and enjoy their rides in cars. The race toward building new vehicles with better self-driving capabilities through AI creates a big opportunity for Baidu. 
Let me talk about the progress of Apollo Self Driving, or ASD, which includes HD maps, AVP, and ANP. To date, we have signed strategic partnerships with 10 leading automakers, to power their new vehicle models with Apollo self-driving services.
Baidu is uniquely positioned to offer high definition maps, or HD Maps, a critical component for self-driving, to top automakers in China. We have invested in Baidu Maps for many years, and are one of the very few companies in China offering HD maps. 
Last month, WM Motor, a leading Chinese EV maker, announced the mass production of their new W6 SUV, due to release in the first half of this year, with Apollo automated valet parking, or AVP, an L4 service option. 
We are excited to announce that we will be taking orders for Apollo autonomous navigation pilot, or ANP, which is based on Apollo’s leading autonomous driving technology. This comes timely as MIIT, China transportation agency, releases draft regulation to allow highway testing of autonomous driving. 
We believe end to end integration of hardware and software will make the best vehicle, that’s why we are in the process of setting up an intelligent EV company,
and we have entered into a strategic partnership with multinational automaker Zhejiang Geely Holding Group (Geely), to offer automobile design and manufacturing to Baidu’s new EV company. Geely holds the distinction of the best-selling Chinese automobile brand in past years, under the Volvo and Geely brands. By combining Baidu's expertise in autonomous driving and smart transportation with Geely's expertise as a leading automobile and EV manufacturer, we hope to pave the way for future passenger vehicles.
Turning to DuerOS, which continues to see strong adoption. Monthly voice queries from first-party devices reached 3.7 billion, up 66% year over year, and DuerOS skills store now offers over 4,400 skills. Our focus on user experience, through leading AI capabilities, has made Xiaodu smart display No. 1 in global shipments again, according to all three market research firms: IDC, Strategy Analytics and Canalys, for the third quarter of 2020.
Turning to mobile ecosystem…In December, MAUs of Baidu App reached 544 million. The number of creators on BJH nearly tripled. The total number of Smart Mini Programs grew 124% from a year ago, and MAUs of Smart Mini Program reached 414 million. These numbers point to a thriving Internet platform that is attracting a large number of third-party creators, publishers and service providers. 
The same trends can be seen in our vertical & community efforts. For example, on a quarter over quarter basis, daily average viewership of videos on Baidu Health grew 92%, and daily average live video sessions hosted by healthcare professionals grew 163%.
E-commerce touches the lives of 1.16 billion Internet users each month in China. Through our AI building blocks, we enable users to have single log on, meaning that a user can log into our app to check his or her express delivery status or summon express delivery pick up just by searching and clicking the applicable delivery company search result. The service convenience of our AI building blocks enabled daily express delivery service usage to surpass 4 million times just months after going live in Baidu App. 
The vibrancy of our mobile ecosystem allows third-party services to quickly ramp up, and our search nature supports the survival of long-tail services. Daily log in users on Baidu App surpassed 70%, up 18 points from a year ago, which creates a strong foundation for further growth of third-party services and non-advertising offerings on Baidu. 
On monetization. For the fourth quarter, revenue from Managed Page reached a third of Baidu Core’s online marketing revenue, up from less than 24% a year ago. Over 300,000 Managed Page customers have adopted Baidu marketing cloud, which enables them to purchase marketing services, build audience, generate leads and maintain life-time relationships with consumers through the tools and services offered on our hosted platform. Our marketing cloud provides CRM-like services, for example, allowing merchants to message consumers who have previously interacted with them. Such CRM features facilitate retargeting and other measures to improve overall marketing effectiveness. 
We aim to integrate YY on to our platform in a deep and thorough way. Comparing with other large mobile ecosystems, our non-advertising revenue represents a much smaller percentage, which means there is potential for huge upside The YY acquisition will help speed up the development of our non-ad revenue. We will allow YY broadcasters to increase their fans following on Baidu. Hundreds of millions of Baidu users will be able to enjoy more live streaming content through Baidu App and Haokan short videos and Baidu Post. We believe such large-scale product integration will create significant synergy in content, infrastructure and monetization. We also plan to leverage YY to accelerate the development of information and knowledge-centric live streaming on Baidu.
These efforts will not only improve user stickiness and vibrancy on our large Internet platform, we believe live streaming has the potential to evolve beyond host tipping, to become a major way for communities on Baidu to further develop, and merchants to increase user engagement and grow their social assets on our platform. User attention usually shifts toward interactive content. With the advent of 5G and augmented reality to increase video effects, live streaming will be an integral component of future content development, and we are excited about this opportunity.
With that, let me turn the call over to Herman to go through the financial highlights.
Herman Yu
Thank you, Robin. Hello everyone. Welcome to Baidu’s fourth quarter 2020 call. All monetary amounts used in my discussion are in RMB, unless stated otherwise. 
Despite an unprecedented year, our business has returned to growth and our profits were solid in the fourth quarter. Baidu’s online marketing is widely diversified, covering many industries in the Chinese economy, and we are benefiting from a rebound of the Chinese economy. 
Concurrently, our non-advertising revenue is growing rapidly, especially from the new AI business. Non-advertising revenue was up 52% in the fourth quarter, reaching 18% of Baidu Core revenue. We recently conducted a TAM exercise, as part of our strategic planning process, and found that the TAM for our non-advertising business, including Internet value-added services, cloud services and intelligent driving, before adding autonomous driving, was 10 times the size of our online marketing TAM and the expected CAGR to 2025 is 3 times that of our online marketing TAM. 
The potential for our non-advertising business is quite significant. For example, we recently signed a smart transportation project, whose contract amount was more than half a quarter’s worth of our auto online marketing revenue. There are over 100 cities in China with a population of over 1 million. When you consider a robobus project recently experimenting collecting 25 RMB for each ride, if fare collection becomes feasible, we could see an increase in robotaxi demand, which would drive our MaaS revenue under transportation cloud, the service component of fleet management. 
For fiscal 2020, Baidu Core revenue reached US$12.1 billion, and we spent 21% on research & development, which is a testament to our commitment to technology, especially in the area of research. Our consistent heavy investment in technology has made Baidu PaddlePaddle the No. 2 deep learning framework in the world, Baidu open AI platform the largest developer community of its kind, among Chinese companies, and our AI patent portfolio the largest in China. Our investment in AI runs the gamut of technology, developer communities, IP patents, AI chip design and talents.
As we began to commercialize AI at scale, the incremental revenue that we derive will be re-invested into product development, sales and project delivery, to further accelerate AI commercialization and strengthen our moat in our AI business. Unlike 2C business, 2B and 2G will require that we hire developers, sales and engineering delivery personnel a few quarters ahead before they start contributing to revenue. 
At the same time, as our solutions become more widely adopted, and we develop more tool kits, margins usually improve. We should also gain synergy coming from multiple businesses scaling, while leveraging off of Baidu Brain, our core AI engine.
We are excited about our non-advertising opportunities, from cloud services to smart transportation to intelligent driving, which includes self-driving services, intelligent EVs and robotaxi fleet management, as well as non-advertising upside under our mobile ecosystem.
Turning to financial highlights.
Total revenues for the fourth quarter reached RMB 30.3 billion, or $4.6 billion, increasing 5% year over year. Our business improved mainly from Baidu Core, which was up 6% year over year in the fourth quarter, to RMB 23.1 billion, or $3.5 billion, compared to down 13%, down 3% and up 2% for Q1 and Q3 respectively. 
Let me give you more color on the progress of each component of Baidu Core:
Our AI cloud grew 67% year over year, reaching US$2 billion on an annualized basis. Cloud growth benefited from enterprise customers coming from the Internet, media business, financial services, transportation and healthcare sectors.
Our ID & OGI revenue is also growing, but its near-term contribution may not be as apparent. Apollo Self Driving, or we call ASD, services are booked on a multi-year basis, and we recognize revenue when an automaker’s new vehicles are shipped with the installation of our ASD services. We have signed strategic partnerships with 10 leading automakers for ASD and are taking orders for autonomous navigation pilot, or ANP.
On Mobile Ecosystem, many of our ad verticals are growing, including healthcare, education, internet/retail, real estate/home furnishing, and auto. In-app advertising, the majority of Baidu Core ad revenue, continues to see double-digit growth, benefiting from the growth of search queries and CPM. Ad revenue is partially offset by Baidu Union, where we are prioritizing profitability over revenue growth.
iQIYI revenue reached RMB 7.5 billion, down 1% year over year. iQIYI subscribers reached 101.7 million in December 2020, further strengthening its foundation to produce entertainment blockbuster originals. 
Non-GAAP operating income for Baidu and Baidu Core was 7.1 billion and 8.0 billion, or $1.2 billion, respectively. Non-GAAP operating profit was down 5% for Baidu Core and Non-GAAP operating margin for Baidu Core was 35%.
Cost of revenues was RMB 14.5 billion, down 6% year over year, primarily due to the decrease in content costs, traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth costs, and the amortization/impairment of intangible assets, partially offset by an increase in costs of goods sold. 
SG&A and R&D together were RMB 10.8 billion, up 24% year over year, primarily due to an increase in promotional and R&D personnel related expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA for Baidu and for Baidu Core were RMB 8.6 billion, and 9.4 billion, or US$1.4 billion, respectively. 
Cash and short-term investments for Baidu and Baidu Core at year end were RMB 162.9 billion and RMB 148.6 billion, or US$22.8 billion, respectively. Free cash flow for Baidu and excluding iQIYI were RMB 3.8 billion and RMB 5.4 billion, or US$827 million, respectively. 
Baidu Core had approximately 32,800 full-time employees, as of December 31, 2020, up 14% from last year. 
During the fourth quarter, we returned US600 million to shareholders, bringing the cumulative share repurchase in 2020 to US$1.9 billion, compared to $709 million in 2019. 
Turning to first quarter guidance…For the first quarter of 2021, Baidu expects revenues to be between RMB 26.0 billion ($4.0 billion) and RMB 28.5 billion ($4.4 billion), representing a growth rate of 15% to 26% year over year, which assumes that Baidu Core revenue will grow between 26% and 39% year over year. This guidance does not include any potential contribution from the acquisition YY Live. 
The above forecast reflects our current and preliminary view, which is subject to substantial uncertainty.
Before I turn the call back to the operator, let me summarize our fourth quarter results: We have made significant strides in preparing Baidu for the next legs of growth. Our heavy investment in technology has allowed us to build leading AI technology, and put us in a strong position to pursue huge, fast-growing market opportunities, such as cloud services, smart transportation and intelligent driving, which includes self-driving services, intelligent EV and autonomous driving. The TAM for our non-advertising business, before including autonomous driving, is about 10X that of our online marketing business, and the CAGR is 3X faster. We get a glimpse of the impact of these opportunities with Q4 non-advertising revenues growing 52%and reaching 18% of our Core revenues. 
We view Baidu Core’s business on three revenue growth curves, mobile ecosystem, AI cloud and intelligent driving & OGI, with non-advertising value added services and AI cloud to boost our near term revenue growth and with intelligent driving & OGI to boost revenue growth further out.
Over the past quarters, we discussed the aggregation of services on Baidu platform. The technology convergence trend that Robin talked about will allow Baidu family of apps to be equipped with unique services offered from us working directly with enterprises and the public sector. Robin gave an example in the smart transportation sector. We are also seeing this trend in the health sector, where we are working with hospitals to provide their services and doctors greater Internet presence. Some call this trend industrial Internet, where there is deep integration with enterprises and the public sector of each industry and provide them with a turnkey solution to Internet presence. Our strength in building technology infrastructure puts us at an advantage in the current Internet environment, where synergy is generated from offering cloud, OGI and mobile ecosystem concurrently.
Our mobile ecosystem is benefiting from a rebound in the Chinese economy, and we stand to benefit from leveraging our large user base to grow our non-advertising revenue, such as fully integrating YY onto Baidu’s platform. 
On capital allocation, our share repurchases in 2020 totaled US$1.9 billion, which reflects the conviction that we have in the direction of our business.
Over the past two decades, we have demonstrated a track record for long-term growth and strong profitability. The heavy investments that we are making to seize growth potential puts us on a path to further improve our long-term growth.
Let me end by talking about our efforts in ESG. We recently released 4 series of ESG report, clarifying our policy in anti-corruption, non-discrimination, privacy protection, data security, talent empowerment and low carbon emission commitment. More importantly, Baidu’s efforts in autonomous driving, including empowering EVs and robotaxis, as well as smart transportation, decrease carbon dependency and enable the improvement of traffic congestion and air quality through AI and cloud services, supporting green energy and green environment. We are pleased that Baidu’s ESG ranking was raised twice last year, as we improved the communication of our ESG efforts.
With that, operator, let’s now open the call to questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Alicia Yap from Citigroup.
Alicia Yap
My question is related to your partnership with Geely. Can you share with us some colors on the expected timeline for this new EV to be released and what Baidu want to achieve out of it? Will Baidu also continue to seek for partnership with other OEMs to co-produce other EV? And just related to that is it seems like Geely is also working with multiple AD companies and also working on developing their own ADAS. So how would you describe the partnership and your relationship with Geely? Thank you. 
Robin Li
Hi Alicia, this is Robin. Let me answer your question. Our partnership with Geely is based on the belief that end-to-end integration, hardware and software, will provide the best experience for autonomous driving or smart EV. And in the past, we have developed a lot of very advanced autonomous driving technologies. We try to push this to integrate into our OEM customers. But most of the traditional OEMs tend to wait until someone else adopts the newest and latest technology. That's why we decide it's time for us to just build a benchmark vehicle to show that how good the experience is. 
It also serves the purpose of better and faster and stronger feedback loop so that we can improve our self-driving technology faster. Right now, the venture is progressing very well. We have a CEO on board, and we have decided on the brand of the new vehicle. 
As you know, it usually takes around 3 years from the beginning to the launch of a new EV model, and we try to do the same for this new venture. 
On the other hand, Apollo and Baidu Brain, in general, remains to be a very open platform. We will continue to work with other OEMs to provide the technology and the products to them whatever that is needed. We will serve them to our best efforts. And in the past, it's just without someone first trying, they tend to wait. Now we have a flagship where we have a benchmark they can follow. I'm sure it will also help the revenue of the Apollo technology provider products of autonomous driving. 
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Eddie Leung from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. 
Eddie Leung
Just have a follow-up question on AI cloud. I remember one of the key reasons of the high AI cloud is that it should have better margins than some of your competitors, which are focused on some of the more infrastructure cloud services. So just wondering if you can offer some not necessarily a very quantitative guidance, but some marginal outlook for your AI cloud thesis given some of your competitors already achieving a breakeven status. 
Herman Yu
Yes. Eddie, Happy New Year. And this is Herman, I'll take that. So for cloud, we have several pieces of business in our cloud. We talked about our enterprise cloud, which is IaaS, but we differentiate in the market, which -- with AI solutions such as PaaS and SaaS. And clearly, when we're able to do 