Himax Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:HIMX) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call May  6, 2021  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Mark Schwalenberg - Investor Relations
Jordan Wu - President and Chief Executive Officer
Jessica Pan - Chief Financial Officer
Eric Li - Chief IR/PR Officer
Conference Call Participants
Tristan Gerra - Baird
Jerry Su - Credit Suisse
Donnie Teng - Nomura Securities
Operator
Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Himax Technologies Incorporated First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Mark Schwalenberg from MZ Group. Mark?
Mark Schwalenberg
Welcome everyone to Himax’s first quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining us from the company are Mr. Jordan Wu, President and Chief Executive Officer; Ms. Jessica Pan, Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Eric Li, Chief IR/PR Officer.
After the company’s prepared comments, we have allocated time for questions in a Q&A session. If you have not yet received a copy of today’s results release, please e-mail himx@mzgroup.us. Access the press release on financial portals or download a copy from Himax’s website at www.himax.com.tw.
Before we begin the formal remarks, I would like to remind everyone that some of the statements in this conference call, including statements regarding expected future financial results and industry growth are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those described in this conference call. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from these described in this conference call, include but are not limited to, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the company’s business, general business and economic conditions and the state of the semiconductor industry, market acceptance and competitiveness of the driver and non-driver products developed by the company, demand for end-use application products, reliance on a small and group of principal customers, the uncertainty of continued success and technological innovations, our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property, pricing pressures, including declines in average selling prices, changes in customer order patterns, changes in estimated full year effective tax rate, shortage in supply of key components, changes in environmental laws and regulations, changes in export license regulated by export administration regulations, EAR, exchange rate fluctuations, regulatory approvals for further investments in our subsidiaries, our ability to collect accounts receivables and manage inventory and other risks described from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings, including those risks identified in the section entitled Risk Factors and its Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC as maybe amended.
Except for the company’s full year of 2020 financials, which were provided in the company’s 20-F and filed with the SEC on March 31, 2021, the financial information included in this conference call is unaudited and consolidated and prepared in accordance with IFRS accounting. Such financial information is generated internally and has not been subjected to the same review and scrutiny, including internal auditing procedures and external audits by an independent auditor, to which we subject our annual consolidated financial statements and may vary materially from the audited consolidated financial information for the same period. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Eric Li. Eric, the floor is yours.
Eric Li
Thank you, Mark and thank you everybody for joining us. My name is Eric Li and I am the Chief IR/PR Officer. Joining me are Jordan Wu, our CEO and Jessica Pan, our CFO. On today’s call, I will first review the Himax consolidated financial performance for the first quarter 2021 followed by the second quarter 2021 outlook. Jordan will then give an update on the status of our business, after which we will take questions. We will review all financials on both IFRS and the non-IFRS basis. The non-IFRS financials exclude share-based compensation and acquisition-related charges.
We have pre-announced the preliminary key financial results for the first quarter 2021 on April 7, as revenue, gross margin and EPS all exceeded the guidance issued on February 4, 2021. Today, our reported results for the revenue, gross margin and the EPS are all in line with pre-announced results. Revenue, gross margin and the EPS all reached all-time highs in the first quarter of 2021.
For the first quarter, we recorded net revenue of $309 million, an increase of 12.1% sequentially and an increase of 67.4% compared to the same period last year. The 12.1% sequential increase of revenue exceeded our guidance of an increase of around 5% to 10% quarter-over-quarter with strong demand across all our major business segments. Gross margin was 40.2%, exceeding guidance of 37% to 38% and significantly improved from 31.2% of the fourth quarter 2020. IFRS profit per diluted ADS was $0.383, exceeding our guidance of $0.30 to $0.34. Strong sales and improved gross margin contributed to the better than expected earnings results. Non-IFRS profit per diluted ADS was $0.384, exceeding our guidance of $0.301 and $0.341.
Revenue from large display drivers was $69.9 million, up 8.8% sequentially and up 13.9% year-over-year. Notebook revenue increased more than 70% sequentially driven by unceasing remote working and distance education demand. TV revenue was also up by around 8% quarter-over-quarter. Monitor IC sales, however, decreased sequentially due to foundry capacity shortage as we predicted in the last earnings call. Large panel driver ICs accounted for 22.6% of total revenue for this quarter compared to 23.3% in the first quarter of 2020 and 33.2% a year ago.
Small and medium-sized display drivers continued to grow in the first quarter and came in faster than expected, with revenue of $204.1 million, up 14.7% sequentially and up 133.3% year-over-year. TDDI for both smartphone and tablet saw robust growth in Q1, a continuation from high base in quarter four last year. For year-over-year perspective, sales of both smartphone and tablet demonstrated massive growth. For automotive segment, we delivered a decent mid-teens sequential growth amidst severe capacity shortage in automotive market worldwide. Small and medium-sized segment accounted for 66.1% of total sales for the quarter compared to 64.5% in the first quarter of 2020 and 47.4% a year ago.
Smartphone sales continue growing in the first quarter, with revenue reaching $80.2 million, up 20.6% sequentially and up 256.4% year-over-year. The smartphone segment represented 26% of our total sales in Q1. Our smartphone TDDI sales increased more than 30% sequentially and up 5x compared to the same period last year, indicating strong market demand and our market share gains. Sales of traditional smartphone DDICs continued to decline as expected. As previously mentioned, traditional smartphone DDICs are quickly being replaced by TTDI and AMOLED.
Our tablet revenue reached another record high of $73 million in the first quarter. Q1 sales of tablet drivers grew 8.3% sequentially and were up more than 150% year-over-year as strong demand for home working and online learning continued. The tablet revenue accounted for more than 23% of our total sales in the first quarter. The tablet TDDI revenue increased 10% sequentially, the fourth consecutive quarter of growth since its initial mass production in the first quarter of 2020. The sequential growth was due to the accelerated penetration of our leading tablet TDDI in the Android market, where we are main or sole source supplier to major end customers. Revenue of traditional discrete driver IC for tablet increased 5.9% sequentially and grew 58.9% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Our first quarter driver IC revenue for automotive amounted to $43.7 million, up 16.4% sequentially and up 44.3% year-over-year. Automotive driver IC business accounted for more than 14% of total revenue in this quarter. Notwithstanding the decent growth, we are still suffering from severe foundry capacity shortage for automotive applications. While the shortage is expected to persist, as indicated in the last earnings call, we do expect to enlarge our shipment quarter-by-quarter this year and beyond into next year. Jordan will elaborate on this in a few minutes.
First quarter revenue for our non-driver business was $35 million, up 4% sequentially, but down 2% year-over-year. The sequential increase was mainly due to the increase of WLO shipment to an anchor customer for continuous legacy product demand as well as more Tcon shipments. The year-over-year decrease was due mainly to the decrease of WLO shipments. However, Tcon and the CMOS image sensor segment both registered an impressive year-over-year growth, up by more than 50% and 70% respectively. Non-driver IC products accounted for 11.3% of total revenue as compared to 12.2% in the first quarter of 2020 and 19.4% a year ago.
Gross margin for the first quarter was 40.2%, up 9 percentage points sequentially and up 17.5 percentage points from same period last year. As the capacity shortage in the semiconductor industry intensified across foundry, packaging and testing, we further optimized our product mix by strategically favoring more high-margin product, while pricing our products higher to reflecting rising costs among all product segments. However, on a year-over-year basis, the lift of gross margin was somewhat offset by the decline in WLO shipment as the legacy product to an anchor customer gradually decreased.
Our IFRS operating expenses were $39.5 million in the first quarter, down 9.9% from preceding quarter, but up 5.9% from a year ago. The operating expenses decreased sequentially because of a one-time cash bonus issued to the team in the fourth quarter 2020. The year-over-year increase was mainly a result of increased salary. Non-IFRS operating expenses for the first quarter were $39.2 million, down 9.9% from the previous quarter and up 6.9% from the same quarter in 2020.
Reflecting high sales and better gross margin, IFRS operating income was $84.8 million for the first quarter, with operating margin of 27.4%, up from 15.3% in prior quarter and up from 2.5% in the same quarter last year. First quarter non-IFRS operating income was $85.1 million, or 27.5% of sales, higher from $42.5 million, or 15.4% of sales last quarter and up from $5.3 million, or 2.9% of sales for the same period last year. Both operating income and operating margin reached record high.
IFRS after-tax profit for the first quarter reached a historical high of $66.9 million or $0.383 per diluted ADS compared to $34 million or $0.195 per diluted ADS in previous quarter and $3.3 million or $0.019 per diluted ADS a year ago. First quarter non-IFRS profit was $67.1 million or $0.384 per diluted ADS compared to non-IFRS profit of $34.2 million or $0.197 per diluted ADS last quarter and non-IFRS profit of $3.8 million or $0.022 per diluted ADS for the same period last year.
Turning to the balance sheet, we had $245.8 million of cash, cash equivalent and other financial assets as March 31, 2021 compared to $126.6 million at the same time last year and $201.4 million a quarter ago. The higher cash balance was derived mainly from $60.3 million of operating cash inflow during the quarter. Restricted cash was $114.8 million at the end of Q1 compared to $104 million a quarter ago and $164 million a year ago. The restricted cash was mainly used to guarantee the short-term secured borrowings for the same amount. We had $57 million of long-term unsecured loans as of the end of Q1, of which $6 million was current portion.
Our quarter end inventory as of March 31, 2021 were $114.9 million, up from $108.7 million last quarter and down from $148.4 million a year ago. The year-over-year decrease was a reflection of the severe capacity – severe supply demand imbalance. To be more precise, the vast majority of our inventory position now is comprised of work-in-progress goods, while finished goods are mostly taken up by customers as soon as they are available to meet the customer’s immediate production needs.
As highlighted in the last earnings call, given the foundry and back end capacity shortage, our inventory level may still stay at a relative low level in the quarter to come. Accounts receivables at the end of March 2021, was $289.1 million, up from $243.6 million last quarter and up from $186.7 million a year ago due to higher sales. DSO was 84 days at the quarter end as compared to 92 days a year ago and 100 days at the end of last quarter. Net cash inflow from operating activities for the first quarter amounted to $60.3 million as compared to an inflow of $67.7 million last quarter and an inflow of $10.6 million for the same period last year. First quarter capital expenditure was $2 million versus $0.8 million last quarter and $3.1 million a year ago. The first quarter CapEx was mainly for R&D related equipment of our IC design business. As of March 31, 2021, Himax has 174.3 million ADS outstanding, little changed from last quarter. On a fully diluted basis, the total number of ADS outstanding was 174.7 million.
Now, turning to our second quarter 2021 guidance, for the second quarter, we expect further revenue growth from the already high level of Q1 2021 in most of our business sectors. Gross margin should see another uptick and could reach another quarterly high. For the second quarter, we expect revenues to increase by 15% to 20% sequentially. Gross margin is expected to be 45.5% to 47.5%, depending on the final product mix. With the increase of both revenue and margin, net profit will increase substantially in second quarter. IFRS profit attributable to shareholders is expected to be in the range of $0.54 to $0.60 per fully diluted ADS. Now, IFRS profit attributable to shareholders is expected to be in the range of $0.542 cents to $0.602 cents per fully diluted ADS.
I will now turn the call over to Jordan. Jordan, the floor is yours.
Jordan Wu
Thank you, Eric. We are still seeing a serious supply demand imbalance, where demand far outpaces supply despite foundries running at more than 100% capacity. Accompanying the rapid growth of 5G and high-performance computing, there is a noticeable increase in demand for semiconductor for advanced processes. The trend towards an ever more connected digital world also drives higher needs for mature nodes, notably demands from display driver IC, power management IC, CMOS image sensor, automotive industry and various AIoT devices that are already all around us and still increasing rapidly in number. Adding these all up, what we have is a structural shift in demand and supply dynamics, especially for the mature nodes, which have lacked meaningful capacity expansion for many years.
As I mentioned on our last earnings call, we have managed to secure more capacity for this year compared to last year, with accessible capacity expected to grow quarter-by-quarter during 2021. Looking further ahead, we are taking measures to work with our strategic foundry partners to further enlarge our long-term capacity pool. We will give more details as they come about. Separately, taking advantage of the current favorable environment, we are also making efforts to reposition ourselves towards higher end and high value-added products by working more directly and closely with select leading end customers. We have made tremendous progress across various industries that we serve.
For large display areas, we are pleased with the results so far in switching our focus more towards high-resolution TV, high-performance monitor and low power notebook. For smartphone, wearable and tablet, we are gearing up for the AMOLED driver IC development in partnership with strategic customers and foundry providers. For automotive market where we are already the leader in display driver IC, we are deepening our working relationships with Tier 1 players and end customers across all major markets. Last but not least, in our non-driver areas, we are pushing hard for the promotion of WiseEye ultra-low power AI sensing solution, which have been – have seen widespread adoption for numerous AIoT applications. Our 3D decoder IC is also already ramping in volume. I will elaborate on this in a few minutes.
Now, let us start with an update on the large panel driver IC business. For the second quarter, we expect large display driver IC revenue to increase by around 20% sequentially, with the three major product lines offset for further growth. We expect decent increase in both monitor and notebook IC sales in Q2, thanks to persisting work-from-home and learn-from-home demands. For the TV IC segment, we anticipate an impressive quarterly growth in Q2, mainly due to shipments of high-end TV products going to a world leading end customer, an illustration of the strategy towards high-end products and leading end customers that I just mentioned.
Nevertheless, our shipping quantity is constrained by capacity shortage for the large panel display driver IC business during the second quarter. Recently, we saw strong customer demand for high-end monitors unfolding post-pandemic. When people work, study and play games at home, which they do much more than before, they are demanding high resolution, higher frame rate, ultra-wide aspect, curved views and even multiple monitors sometimes. Himax continues to lead the high-end monitor market by providing advanced driver ICs and Tcons in partnership with leading panel makers and end customers.
Now, let’s turn to the small and medium-sized display IC business. In the second quarter, we see continuous strong demand for all three segments, namely smartphone, tablet and automotive. Again, we are unable to meet all customer demands due to tight foundry capacity. As the leading supplier for the Android tablet market, we are strategically allocating capacity in favor of tablet over smartphone to support the needs for home working and remote learning.
For the second quarter, we expect tablet sales to grow by mid-teens and smartphone sales to be flattish compared to the previous quarter, reflecting our capacity allocation decision. With enlarged capacity as we indicated in the last earnings call, automotive driver IC business is expected to grow by more than 20%, the highest among the three segments in the small and medium-sized driver IC business. Tablet, already among our top sales contributors since 2020, continues to grow with accelerated TDDI penetration among leading Android names as well as strong demand driven by the stay-at-home economy. For the second quarter, we expect tablet TDDI sales to grow by more than 20% as our tablet customers are accelerating adoption of TDDI.
TDDI for high-end tablet enjoys particularly good momentum as people crave for more advanced features such as high frame rate, high resolution, larger screen size and active stylus for better quality handwriting and drawing. All these trends benefit us for higher ASP and growing market share. Again, tablet TDDI enjoys better margin and its rapid growth helps enhance our overall gross margin. Finally, for tablet product, revenue of traditional DDIC is expected to remain flat sequentially during the second quarter.
Now, a quick update on smartphone products where customers are demanding more shipments, limited by severe capacity constraints, our smartphone TDDI sales are expected to be flat from last quarter. Discrete drivers for smartphone, running at relatively low volume, are expected to grow strongly with seasonal demand for the second quarter. As we have mentioned, DDIC of both smartphone and tablet are in a downward trend as they are being replaced by TDDI.
Turning to the automotive sector, it’s been well reported that the automotive industry worldwide has recovered strongly and abruptly from its earlier slump starting later last year, but also suffered from severe shortage of semiconductor supply. We have been experiencing the same for the display driver ICs we provide for automotive applications where we command the world-leading market share of well more than 30%. As the ongoing capacity shortage continues to intensify, panel makers, Tier 1 suppliers and end customers seek out Himax for more supply of automotive display driver ICs. Having foreseen the growing automotive display demand and the capacity shortage, we engaged early and have secured a meaningful increase in capacity for this year and longer term. We expect the Q2 sales into automotive industry to grow more than 20% sequentially, which would represent more than 100% growth year-over-year. Notwithstanding the impressive growth, the demand still far outpaces the foundry capacity accessible to us.
Along with the fast-growing electric vehicles and autonomous driving that is deemed to be the next big thing, car interior is catering to better human vehicle interaction with ever more stylish designs, made possible with increasing number of panels equipped with advanced display technologies such as TDDI and local dimming. As the market leader in automotive display driver business, we are leading the charge in answering to such demands. For instance, we dominate the design-in and design wins of automotive TDDI with direct and indirect customers across the continents for a technology that is essential for very large sized, stylish and free formed automotive displays.
We are also leading in the upcoming local dimming technology, which not only provide effective power saving critical for EVs, but also enhances display contrast for better viewing under bright daylight. In addition, our high-speed point-to-point bridge and LTDI solutions are especially designed for very large panels up to a pillar-to-pillar display size. With these new demands unleashed for advanced display technologies, we expect exponential growth – exponential sales growth of automotive sector in the years to come.
Next, an update on AMOLED, as AMOLED offers better display quality, lower power consumption and plastic free form design, the technology has gained traction in the high-end market. As stated before, Himax is highly committed to AMOLED technology where our development started from smartphone and has extended to wearable, tablet and automotive. In March, we team up with BOE Varitronix, or BOEVx, the world-leading supplier of automotive display products, and succeeded in securing an AMOLED display design win with a leading EV maker for its upcoming flagship model. Armed with Himax AMOLED driver IC and timing controller solution, Himax and BOEVx partnered to offer flexible AMOLED display – automotive display, firstly, over a 12.8-inch center information display product. Small volume shipment is anticipated starting the fourth quarter of 2021. For other AMOLED applications, we are continuing our development efforts by proactively working with leading Chinese panel makers and strategic foundry partners. We will report further progress in due course. We believe AMOLED driver IC will soon become one of the major growth drivers for small and medium-sized panel driver IC business. For the second quarter, revenue for the small and medium-sized driver IC business is expected to increase by low-teens sequentially, with demand much higher than supply. Capacity shortage is expected to continue across all business segments in this area.
Now let me share some of the progress we made on the non-driver IC businesses in the last quarter. First on timing controller, for the second quarter, we expect Tcon sales to increase more than 60% sequentially as we successfully acquired more capacity for both foundry and back end. Backed by several recent major Tcon design wins from leading end customers for gaming monitor, low power notebook and 8K/4K TVs, our Tcon product line is on track for further growth. It is worth mentioning that we have dominated – we have a dominant global market share for 8K Tcon with adoption from literally all major TV brands. With better ASP and margin than those of display drivers, Tcon is expected to be an extensive long-term growth area and contribute more to the top and bottom line growth going forward. Similar to all display driver IC businesses, our Tcon volume is already kept – is also kept by capacity shortage, both from foundry and back-end packaging.
Next is a quick update on WLO. WLO revenue increased substantially in the first quarter, thanks to resumed orders from an anchor customer for its legacy products. In the second quarter of 2021, WLO sales are expected to remain flat quarter-over-quarter, which will help sustain WLO factory utilization. Meanwhile, we continue to collaborate with key customers and partners for new applications such as ToF 3D sensing, AR/VR gadgets, biomedical devices and others, targeting their future generation products.
Himax is a pioneer in high-precision diffraction optics technology with 15 years of experience under our belt, having worked on very different designs over a variety of applications with some of the world’s most heavyweight tech names. The diffractive optical element, or DOE, enables the manipulation of phase, shape, direction and even power of incident laser light for the output of specific predesigned optical pattern and functions that are not feasible in standard reflective optics. The diffraction optics technology is now well adopted in 3D sensing, AR/VR devices, holographic display, biomedical inspection, optical communication, etcetera. We are seeing DOE plays an even more decisive growth for the next-generation optical technology in light of its high-precision and lightweight characteristics.
In addition to WLO that is suitable for small electronic devices such as wearable and portable products, we have extended our reach in diffraction optics technology to cover large sized applications. In October 2020, we made a strategic cash investment and became the controlling shareholder of CM Visual Technology Corp., or CMVT, which is specialized in microstructure optical film design and manufacturing and is the world leader in this area. CMVT offers proprietary microstructure optical design expertise, nano-scale mold engraving capability as well as roll-to-roll nano-imprinting manufacturing capacity. CMVT’s roller type nano-imprinting can support the production of large-sized film with superior production efficiency at competitive costs. This is a complementary technology to our WLO technology. And by having both teams work together, we can now deliver cutting-edge solutions for different applications covering all sizes of optics.
Omniwide Film, which is CMVT’s microstructure optical film, is the best answer to various types of optical challenges such as gray level inversion, color washout and light leakage under oblique viewing angles for better visual experience. The Omniwide Film solution can support different types of display, including TN, VA, IPS types of TFT-LCD displays and AMOLED display. These solutions are all available to the market right now.
Next on 3D sensing update for our non-smartphone segment, as reported in previous earnings call, our proprietary 3D decoder IC provides superior 3D depth map decoding for best-in-class secure face recognition and has been widely adopted by leading Chinese customers for e-payment device. We started volume shipments of the 3D decoder in the fourth quarter of 2020 and expect continuous growth in 2021.
Now switching gears to the WiseEye smart sensing solution. To maximize market visibility and explore potential applications, we continue to push forward with 2 WiseEye business models, namely total solution and discrete component. For the WiseEye total solution model where we are the owner of the solution, we integrate our proprietary AI processor and CMOS image sensor, both with an outstanding ultra-low power characteristic with AI algorithms from multiple third-party software partners. These algorithm partners, which include our subsidiary Emza, come from different countries and have – and many have special domain know-how catering for the needs of specific markets.
We mentioned notebook, TV and air conditioner in the last earnings call as early examples of our total solution approach. I am pleased to report that recently, we were officially awarded a sizable purchase order from a top-tier household name for a mainstream application with mass production scheduled to commence at the fourth quarter of this year. This early success marked a major milestone for our WiseEye product line, which we believe will be a major growth engine for our business for many years.
We are also encouraged by the progress of customer engagements for the new applications we launched, covering automotive, panoramic videoconferencing, utilities meter, QR code reader, doorbell and door lock. All these applications offer always on and/or ultralow power AI visual sensing that are made possible by our WiseEye technology. The list of applications for our WiseEye total solution will continue to expand as we continue to reach out to key players in various industries who are working closely with our algorithm partners. For the key component business model, where we offer AI processor and/or always on CMOS image sensors, but without AI algorithm, we continue to collaborate with global AI and cloud service partners by proactively participating in their ecosystems and infrastructures. Following the successful adoption of our WE-I Plus AI processor in the Google TensorFlow Lite for Microcontroller framework in March 2021.
Our WE-I Plus AIoT platform was endorsed by Microsoft and was awarded the Azure IoT