Himax Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:HIMX) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call February  4, 2021  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Mark Schwalenberg - Investor Relations, MZ North America
Eric Li - Chief IR/PR Officer
Jordan Wu - President and Chief Executive Officer
Conference Call Participants
Jerry Su - Credit Suisse
Tristan Gerra - Baird Equity Research
Donnie Teng - Nomura Securities
Operator
Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Himax Technologies Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Mark Schwalenberg from MZ Group. Please go ahead.
Mark Schwalenberg
Welcome everyone to Himax's fourth quarter 2020 earnings call. Joining us from the company today are Mr. Jordan Wu, President and Chief Executive Officer; Ms. Jessica Pan, Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Eric Li, Chief IR/PR Officer.
After the company's prepared remarks, we have allocated time for questions in a Q&A session. If you have not yet received a copy of today's results, please e-mail HIMX@mzgroup.us. Access the press release on financial portals or download a copy from Himax's website at www.himax.com.tw.
Before we begin formal remarks, I'd like to remind everyone that some of the statements in this conference call, including statements regarding expected future financial results and industry growth are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those described in this conference call.
Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from these described in this conference call, include, but are not limited to, general business and economic conditions, the state of the semiconductor industry, market acceptance and competitiveness of the driver and non-driver products developed by Himax, demand for end-use application products, the uncertainty of continued success and technological innovations as well as other operational and market challenges and other risks described from time to time in the company's SEC filings, including those risks identified in the section entitled Risk Factors and its Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC in March 2020.
Except for the company's full year of 2019 financials, which were provided in the company's 20-F and filed with the SEC on March 25, 2020, the financial information included in this conference call is unaudited and consolidated and prepared in accordance with IFRS accounting. Such financial information is generated internally and has not been subjected to the same review and scrutiny, including internal auditing procedures and external audits by an independent auditor, to which we subject our annual consolidated financial statements and may vary materially from the audited consolidated financial information for the same period.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Eric Li. Eric, the floor is yours.
Eric Li
Thank you, Mark. Thank you and thank you, everybody, for joining us. My name is Eric Li, and I am the Chief IR/PR Officer. Joining me are Jordan Wu, our CEO; and Jessica Pan, our CFO.
On today's call, I will first review the Himax consolidated financial performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2020, followed by the first quarter 2021 outlook. Jordan will then give an update on the status of our business. After which, we will take questions. We will review our financials on both IFRS and non-IFRS basis.
The non-IFRS financials exclude share-based compensation and acquisition-related charges. The impact of COVID-19 has persisted globally. New life science, social activity and economic practice are all dynamically evolving.
One of these inferences is the unexpected long-lasting strong demand for electronics device and the component, which is broadly in capacity shortage in semiconductor foundry and began.
In such a favorable, but challenging business environment, we continue to steadily implement prudent exclusion and deliver strong business performance along the way. We pre-announced the preliminary key financial result for the first quarter on January 7 with revenues, gross margin and EPS all exceeding the guidance issued on November 12, 2020.
Today, our reported result for the revenue, gross margin and EPS are all in line with the preannounced results. Both revenues and the gross margin hit record high in fourth quarter of 2020. For the fourth quarter, we recorded net revenues of $275.8 million, an increase of 14.9% sequentially and an increase of 57.6% compared to the same period last year.
The 14.9% sequential increase of revenues exceeded our guidance of an increase of around 10% quarter-over-quarter, thanks to strong momentum across all major business segments. TV, monitor, automotive driver ICs and CMOS image sensor contributed more to the better-than-guided sales than other segments.
Gross margin of 31.2% exceeded the prior guidance of around 29% and significantly improved from the 22.3% of the third quarter 2020. IFRS profit per diluted ADS was $0.195, exceeding our guidance of around $0.15 to $0.16. Strong sales and improved gross margin contributed to the better-than-expected earnings results. Non-IFRS profit per diluted ADS was $0.197, exceeding our guidance of around $0.151 cents to $0.161.
Revenue from large display drivers was $64.2 million, up 15.2% sequentially and up 11% year-over-year. The sequential growth was driven by a continuous strong demand for IT products, including notebook and monitor, derived from the ongoing remote working and distance education.
TV revenue was up slightly quarter-over-quarter and outperformed our previous guidance of a mid-single-digit sequential decline due to better home entertainment demand from the stay-at-home economy. Large panel driver ICs accounted for 23.3% of total revenues for this quarter, compared to 23.2% in the third quarter of 2020 and 33.1% a year ago.
Small and medium-sized display drivers continued to grow in the fourth quarter as guided, with revenue of $177.9 million, up 17.3% sequentially and up 119.4% year-over-year. Smartphone and tablet display TDDIs grew robustly in the fourth quarter but was offset by a decline of DDICs.
For year-over-year perspective, both smartphone and tablet demonstrated extraordinary sales growth, yet growth was constrained by the severe foundry capacity shortage. Small- and medium-sized segment accounted for 64.5% of total sales for the quarter, compared to 63.2% in the third quarter of 2020 and 46.4% a year ago.
Smartphone sales continued growing in the fourth quarter, with revenue reaching $66.6 million, up 5.1% sequentially and 173.1% year-over-year. It represented more than 24% of our total sales in Q4. Our smartphone TDDI sales were up around 10% sequentially and up more than 300% compared to the same period last year. The sequential growth was due to favorable mix of both product and the clientele.
In consideration of capacity limitation, our strategy is to prioritize our support to those customers with whom we are major supplier or have long-term business relationships. Sales of traditional smartphone DDICs fell by around 10% sequentially and were up around 20% from the same period last year. As we have repeatedly indicated, traditional smartphone DDICs are quickly being replaced by TDDI and AMOLED.
Our tablet revenue, one of our top sales contributors throughout 2020, reached $67.4 million for the fourth quarter, another record high. The Q4 sales grew 25.3% sequentially and 291.5% year-over-year. The tablet revenue accounted for more than 24% of our total sales in the fourth quarter, slightly higher than that of smartphone.
Despite smartphone having much bigger market size than tablet, sales of our smartphone and tablet were equally weighted for the fourth quarter, indicating our favorable capacity allocation toward tablet segment, a reflection of our leading position in that market.
For tablet TDDI, the sequential revenue increased significantly by over 80%. This marked the third consecutive strong quarterly increase since the initial mass production in the first quarter of 2020. It reflects the robust customer demand from the Android tablet market, where we are main or sole source supplier to all leading end-customers.
Improved product mix with increasing shipments in high-end products with active stylus also ascribed to the satisfactory sales growth and helped our overall margin improvement. Revenue of traditional discrete driver ICs for tablet decreased 12.3% sequentially, but increased 68.8% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter driver IC revenue for automotive amounted to $37.5 million, up 32.4% sequentially and up 11.9% year-over-year, as car makers resumed production in response to a recovery of global automotive demand from Q3 2020. However, we were unable to scale up fast enough to meet this surging demand for all customers due to capacity shortage. Automotive driver IC accounted for more than 13% of total revenues. During 2021, we expect to further our automotive display driver IC market share from the current level of more than 30%. Jordan will elaborate on this in a few minutes.
Fourth quarter revenue from our non-driver business was $33.7 million, up 3.3% sequentially, but down 6.4% year-over-year. The sequential increase was mainly a result of increased shipment of Tcon ICs for high frame rate and high-resolution displays as well as CMOS image sensor products with strong demands coming from notebook and web camera applications. However, the increase in sales was offset by a decrease in WLO shipments to an anchor customer. The year-over-year reduction in sales was due to a decrease in WLO shipments. Non-driver products accounted for 12.2% of total revenues, as compared to 13.6% in the third quarter of 2020 and 20.5% a year ago.
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 31.2%, up 890 basis points sequentially and up 1,060 basis points from the same period last year. The much-improved gross margin can be ascribed to 2 main reasons: favorable product mix and industry capacity shortage. The growth of higher margin products, notably tablet TDDI, Tcon and automotive drivers, outpaced that of other product categories during the quarter, thereby enhancing our corporate gross margin.
The leap of gross margin for the fourth quarter also reflected strong overall demands and better product pricing on rising material costs across foundry, assembly and testing, all undergoing severe capacity shortage. Not meeting all demands, we were able to allocate the limited capacity to the products with better margins.
Our IFRS operating expenses were $43.8 million in the fourth quarter, down 0.8% from the preceding quarter, but up 17% from a year ago. The sequential decrease was caused by negative difference in RSU expenses, offset by increased cash bonus, as we reported in the last earnings call, to further reward employees for the better-than-expected financial results, and higher R&D expenses.
The year-over-year increase was a result of increased salary and cash bonus along with higher R&D expenses. Despite a year-over-year increase in operating expenses, the operating expense ratio was reduced from 21.4% in Q4 2019 to 15.9% in Q4 2020, reflecting our careful management over operating expenses. Non-IFRS operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $43.5 million, up 11.8% from the previous quarter and up 18.1% from the same quarter in 2019.
Reflecting higher sales and better gross margin, IFRS operating profit was $42.2 million for the fourth quarter with operating margin of 15.3%, up from 3.9% in prior quarter and up from minus 0.8% in the same period last year. Fourth quarter non-IFRS operating profit was $42.5 million, or 15.4% of sales, higher from $14.7 million, or 6.1% of sales last quarter and up from minus 0.4% from the same period last year.
IFRS profit for the fourth quarter was $34 million, or $0.195 per diluted ADS, compared to $8.5 million, or $0.049 per diluted ADS in previous quarter and $1 million, or $0.006 per diluted ADS, a year ago.
Fourth quarter non-IFRS profit was $34.2 million, or $0.197 per diluted ADS, compared to non-IFRS profit of $12.6 million, or $0.073 per diluted ADS last quarter and non-IFRS profit of $1.5 million, or $0.009 per diluted ADS for the same period last year.
Now, let's have a quick overview on 2020 full year financial performance. Revenue totaled $887.3 million in 2020, a 32.1% growth over 2019. In the first half of the year, COVID-19 and U.S. sanctions on China brought turbulence to the market. However, our business rebounded strongly throughout the second half with fresh demands brought by the new stay-at-home economy.
Among our 3 major product categories, small- and medium-sized display drivers posted the highest growth of 67.7% year-over-year in 2020 with sales totaling $515.7 million. As leading Android tablet brands all adopted our TDDI solutions and global smartphone sales rebounded, we saw extraordinary business momentum for both product areas in 2020.
Revenue from large panel display drivers totaled $240.8 million in 2020, a mild increase of 1.5% year-over-year. During the pandemic, the surge in IT demand boosted our sales of monitor display drivers up by high teens and notebook display drivers up around 60% respectively. TV sales, however, declined by high-single-digit year-over-year due to weakness in global TV market which was negatively impacted by COVID-19 outbreak.
Non-driver product sales totaled $130.8 million, an increase of 2.9% year-over-year. The year-over-year increase was mainly from Tcon amidst the growing need for high frame rate and high-resolution displays, and CIS due to the continuous strong demand in notebook and web camera for work-from-home and online education. This increase was offset by WLO, as the legacy product of an anchor customer gradually decreased.
Gross margin in 2020 was 24.9%, up from 20.5% in 2019. The year-over-year improvement was mainly due to strong sales in the second half and a more favorable product mix. As previously mentioned, robust demand pushed foundry capacity constraints to a more severe level which in turn enabled better pricing.
IFRS operating expenses were $162.9 million, up $6.6 million, or 4.2%, compared to last year. The increase came from higher expenses in share-based compensation, cash bonus, R&D expenses as well as salary, but offset by lower travelling fees. Notably, the stronger NT dollar against the U.S. dollar in 2020 contributed to around $3.9 million of operating expenses increase because, while our accounting was U.S. dollar denominated, we paid the bulk of our employee salaries as well as much of our Taiwan locally incurred expenses in NT dollar. However, the operating expense ratio of 2020 was reduced to 18.4% from 23.2% in 2019, indicating our consistent management of operating expenses.
IFRS operating income was $57.9 million, in contrast to a loss of $18.3 million from 2019, due to higher sales and higher gross margin. For the same reason non-IFRS operating income was [$64.4 million] [sic] $64.6 million, an increase of $80.9 million from a loss of $16.3 million in 2019.
Our IFRS profit for the year was $47.1 million, or $0.272, versus a loss of $13.6 million or $0.079 per diluted ADS. Non-IFRS profit for 2020 was $52.3 million, or $0.302 per diluted ADS, up $64.4 million year-over-year from a loss of $12.1 million last year. The upswing in income was a result of better sales and higher gross margin along with well-managed operating expenses.
Turning to the balance sheet. We had $201.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and other financial assets as of December 31, 2020, compared to $112.1 million at the same time last year and $142.9 million a quarter ago. The higher cash balance was mainly a result of an operating cash inflow of $67.7 million during the quarter.
Restricted cash was $104 million at the end of Q4, the same as the preceding quarter, compared to $164 million a year ago. The restricted cash was used to guarantee the short-term secured borrowings for the same amount. We had $58.5 million of long-term unsecured loans as of the end of Q4, of which $6 million was current portion.
Our year-end inventories as of December 31, 2020 were $108.7 million, down from $125.7 million last quarter and $143.8 million a year ago. Accounts receivable at the end of December 2020 was $243.6 million, up from $221.1 million last quarter and up from $164.9 million a year ago. DSO was 100 days at the year end, as compared to 90 days a year ago and 99 days at the end of the last quarter.
As highlighted in the last earnings calls, given the foundry and backend capacity shortage, our inventory level will stay at a relative low level in the quarters to come. Net cash inflow from operating activities for the fourth quarter was $67.7 million as compared to an inflow of $33.5 million last quarter and an inflow of $23.4 million for the same period last year. Cash inflow from operations in 2020 was $102.6 million as compared to $7.7 million in 2019.
Fourth quarter capital expenditures amounted to $0.8 million, versus $1.2 million last quarter and $2.7 million a year ago. The fourth quarter CapEx was for R&D related equipment. Total capital expenditure for the year was $5.8 million, mainly for design tools and R&D related equipment. In comparison, the CapEx for 2019 was $45.9 million, of which the vast majority was for the purchase of land, the construction of a new building and WLO capacity expansion.
As of December 31, 2020, Himax had 173.8 million ADS outstanding, little changed from last quarter. On a fully diluted basis, the total number of ADS outstanding is 174.1 million.
Now turning to our first quarter 2021 guidance. For the first quarter, we expect further revenue growth from the already high level of Q4 2020 in most of our business sectors. Gross margin shall see another uptick and could reach another quarterly high. For the first quarter, we expect revenue to increase by 5% to 10% sequentially. Gross margin is expected to be 37% to 38% depending on the final product mix. With increase of both revenue and margin, net income shall increase substantially in the first quarter.
IFRS profit attributable to shareholders is expected to be in the range of around $0.30 to $0.34 per fully diluted ADS. Non-IFRS profit attributable to shareholders is expected to be in the range of $0.301 to $0.341 per fully diluted ADS. Revenues, gross margin and EPS will all likely reach quarterly highs during this quarter.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Jordan. Jordan, the floor is yours.
Jordan Wu
Thank you, Eric. As we highlighted before on previous earnings call, our capacity shortage appears to be a long-term phenomenon. As we entered the year 2021, the shortage has become even more severe and has extended to backend facilities that include assembly and testing. As a leading industry player with superior resources and engineering capability to diversify and enlarge the vendor pool, along with long-term business relationships with both foundry and backend suppliers, we engaged early and have successfully in securing more capacity for 2021 as compared to the level of Q4 2020 when we reached the recent peak quarterly shipment.
In addition, we are also optimizing capacity allocation among our diversified foundry suppliers by making the right products at the right fabs with an aim to fully utilize the capacity accessible to us. Among the product areas for which we have secured a meaningful capacity increase is automotive, where the global shortage for semiconductor supply is overwhelming. We expect the total capacity available to us to increase quarter-by-quarter in 2021 and will continue our efforts in securing further capacity.
As far as we can see, the overall semiconductor industry supply will not have any significant increase any time soon while strong demand is likely to persist longer than expected. In such an environment, Himax is a preferred supplier to work with for our sizable scale, diversified vendor pool and extensive product offerings. Our strength in a number of high margin businesses will also help our ongoing margin improvement efforts. For example, with strong demand for tablet expected to remain, are being the preferred vendor for major Android names will ensure the high margin contribution continues.
Likewise, our leading position in automotive display represents a solid support for our margins as we anticipate our robust sales growth in this high margin business for the upcoming years. Moreover, gross margin improvement can also come from new non-driver products, notably our high-end timing controller, WiseEye ultralow power AI, and 3D sensing. Again, gross margin expansion will always be one of our major business goals for this year and beyond.
Now let us start with an update on the large panel driver IC business. For the first quarter, we expect large display driver IC revenue to increase by low teens sequentially. For notebook IC segment, we anticipate another impressive quarter of high growth in Q1, a continuation from previous quarters, increasing substantially from the previous quarter due to the extension of strong demand derived from persisting remote working and e-learning. As for monitor IC sales, on the other hand, we expect a sequential decline in the first quarter due to the capacity shortage as we are unable to meet all the demand.
As TV sell-through remains strong and TV panel shortage increases, our TV segment looks set to end the first quarter with a better than seasonal momentum of around 10% sequential growth. Recently, we saw customers proceeding with aggressive promotion in high-resolution models that require high-end drivers and Tcons, in anticipation of sustained strong demand for home entertainment during the pandemic. However, our display driver IC and Tcon shipments are still capped by supply shortage in foundry and packaging, despite firm demand from customers.
Now, let's turn to the small- and medium-sized display driver IC business. In the first quarter, we see continuous strong TDDI sales for both smartphone and tablet, with demand still surpassing supply. Foundry capacity remains a major issue that adversely impacts our shipping capability. With smartphone and tablet sharing the same foundry pool, we strategically allocate capacity in favor of tablet as we are the dominant supplier in the Android tablet market.
For Q1 tablet sales, we expect another high-single-digit sequential growth fueled by consumer demand for home working and remote learning needs as well as higher TDDI penetration. We expect Q1 smartphone sales to slightly increase by mid-single-digit, in which smartphone TDDI revenue is projected to have consecutive mid-teens growth and smartphone TDDI would continue its declining trend.
Tablet was one of our top sales contributors in 2020 thanks largely to the fast-rising TDDI penetration for Android names and the strong demand driven by the stay-at-home economy. To further broaden its product offering and solidify our market position, our tablet TDDI has moved toward higher frame rate, higher resolution and larger screen sized solutions. We have also enhanced touch accuracy through our leading active stylus design for better quality handwriting and drawing.
As stated before, Himax is highly committed to AMOLED technology. Our development started from smartphone, and has extended to wearable, tablet and automotive. We have some encouraging progresses with leading Chinese panel makers and will report in due course. We believe AMOLED driver IC was soon to become one of the major growth drivers for our small and medium panel driver IC business in 2021.
Turning to the automotive sector. The global shortage of semiconductor components has brought great challenges to the world's automotive industry. As most of the world's lockdown periods end, tightening foundry capacity, combined with sudden surge in orders due to pent-up demand, have left the industry facing an even more severe shortage compared to other sectors.
Customers now rely on just-in-time delivery of IC components to preserve production and some reportedly already suspended production for days or even weeks. In consideration of unceasing sales demand amidst tight capacity shortage, we worked strategically with panel makers, tier-1s and end-customers, across different continents, and have secured an enlarged volume of foundry capacity while managing swift production adjustments to meet customers' production schedules.
By offering supportive logistics, we hope to further our relationships with customers, who can in return help accelerate our new technology into their new models going forward. Limited by large-scale supply shortages, our automotive ICs segment is expected to deliver a mid-teens sequential increase in the first quarter.
With electric vehicles quickly emerging as the next-big-thing, we see the car market embracing new display technologies and shifting towards larger, more sophisticated and higher performing displays like never before. Already the market leader in automotive display driver business, we foresee further market share gains in the coming years in this fast-growing market.
We continue to sustain our competitive position with a comprehensive product offering for advanced new features such as TDDI for in-cell touch, local dimming, cascade-topology connection, point-to-point high-speed interface bridging functions, and LTDI for larger in-cell display.
As a reminder, we launched the world's first TDDI design for automotive displays technology, which first started shipping in 2019 with meaningful volume anticipated starting 2021. As EV grows in popularity and autonomous driving develops, our technological prowess continues to separate us from peers for the next generation display for automotive.
For the first quarter, revenue for the small- and medium-sized driver IC business is expected to increase by around high-single-digit, with demand continuing to surpass supply. Capacity shortage, again, remains a major factor as our production has been unable to respond quickly enough to the unexpected rapid growth.
Now, let me share some of the progress we make on the non-driver IC businesses in the last quarter.
First on timing controller. The aggressive promotion by major TV brands, that I mentioned earlier, will benefit our high-end Tcon business, as our 8K TV timing controllers, as well as display drivers, have been widely adopted by multiple leading end-customers. Our Tcon technology not only provides higher resolution, higher frame rate and better image quality, it can also enable lower power in products where power consumption is critical.
Already over 5% of our total sales, timing controller products enjoy better margin and ASP than those of display drivers. And we expect this segment to be an extensive long-term growth area. Our Tcon revenue in the first quarter, while limited by capacity shortage in IC packaging, is expected to increase by high teens sequentially.
Next is a quick update on WLO. The fourth quarter WLO revenue decline, that Eric reported earlier, was a result of lower shipments to an anchor customer. However, in the first quarter of 2021, sales are expected to increase substantially thanks to resumed shipments to fulfill the anchor customer's higher demand.
The sequential shipment increase and the higher capacity utilization in our WLO factory will positively contribute to our Q1 gross margin. Meanwhile, with our leading nanoimprinting technologies and diffraction optics design capability, we continue to engage and collaborate with key customers and partners for their next generation products, with focuses on ToF 3D sensing, AR/VR gadgets, biomedical devices and others.
Notably, we are seeing more ToF camera design activities among Android smartphone makers for 3D sensing and are making good progress by offering our leading ToF optical components, including diffractive DOEs, micro-lens arrays and diffusers to meet diversified demand from a wide variety of customers/partners, including VCSEL suppliers, ToF sensor vendors, ToF module makers and smartphone OEMs.
Next, let me give you an update on 3D sensing for non-smartphone segment. As mentioned before, we provide customers who wish to design their own structured light-based 3D sensing solution with our proprietary 3D decoder IC. Our 3D decoder can accelerate local image processing for face recognition and offer best-in-class security authentication.
It was already certified by the leading Chinese electronic payment standard with requirements of accurate data decoding, timely operation and strict privacy. We have started volume shipments in the last quarter with decent order pipeline throughout this year and further new design-in sockets on the way.
On the other hand, for our structured light 3D sensing total solution, small volume shipments are expected for business access control and biomedical inspection devices in the first quarter. More design-ins and engagements are progressing and we continue to receive numerous inquiries with new ideas of applications that they occurred to us.
Now, switching gears to the WiseEye smart sensing solution. As I mentioned several times, on previous earnings calls, in order for our WiseEye technology to maximize market visibility and satisfy demand for emerging applications, 2 business models are adopted, namely: total solution and discrete component.
For total solution, 