Intel Corporation (NASDAQ:INTC) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call April 22, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Tony Balow - Head, Investor Relations
Pat Gelsinger - Chief Executive Officer
George Davis - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
C.J. Muse - Evercore
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Pierre Ferragu - New Street
Chris Danely - Citigroup
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Operator
Good day. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Intel Corp.’s First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participant lines are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ presentation, there be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today’s conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Head of Investor Relations, Tony Balow. Please go ahead.
Tony Balow
Thank you, Operator. Welcome everyone to Intel’s first quarter earnings conference call. By now you should have received a copy of our earnings release and the earnings presentation. If you have not received both documents, they are available on our Investor website. The earnings presentation is also available in the webcast window for those joining us online. I am joined today by our CEO, Pat Gelsinger; and our CFO, George Davis. In a moment, we will hear brief remarks from both followed by Q&A.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it, and as such, does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Today we provided both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. We will be speaking to the non-GAAP financial measures when describing our consolidated results. As a reminder, our non-GAAP results exclude our NAND memory business, which is subject to a pending divestiture and our non-GAAP year-over-year comparisons also exclude NAND from 2020 results. The earnings presentation and earnings release available on intc.com include the full GAAP and non-GAAP reconciliations.
With that, let me hand it over to Pat.
Pat Gelsinger
Thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everyone. It’s a pleasure to be with you for my first earnings call. I consider it an honor to be CEO of this great company. Thanks for joining today. Intel delivered a strong Q1 that beat our January guide on both the top and bottomline driven by exceptional demand for our products and exclusive execution by our team.
We shipped a record volume of notebook CPUs. We launched new competitive Intel Core and Xeon processors. Mobileye had its best quarter ever. With tremendous industry support, we unveiled our IDM 2.0 strategy, setting a bold new course for technology leadership at Intel. The response from employees, partners and customers has been incredible. Our teams are reinvigorated, innovating and executing. It’s amazing to be back at Intel and Intel is back.
Before George takes you through the financial details of the quarter, I will begin with the industry trends we are seeing and why Intel is well-positioned to aggressively capitalize on them. Said simply, Intel is the only company with the depth and breadth of software, silicon and platforms, and packaging and process with at-scale manufacturing that customers can depend on for their next-generation innovations.
There are four super powers driving digital transformation, cloud, connectivity, artificial intelligence and the intelligent edge. Intel’s mission and we are uniquely positioned to do so, is to help customers harness these super powers to improve the lives of every human on the planet.
The digitization of everything was remarkably accelerated by COVID and has spurred innovation and new models of working and learning, interacting and care. Technology is increasingly central to every aspect of human existence and semiconductors are the foundation. This is creating a cycle of explosive growth in semiconductors that will result in sustained growth for a decade or more.
The PC ecosystem in particular is experiencing resurgence. This remote work and learning dynamic of COVID led to more PC shipments in 2020 than at any point since 2012 and that’s continuing. 2021 is shaping up to be the largest PC market ever. In fact, we shipped more notebook CPUs in Q1 than in any other quarter in our history. Total platform unit volumes were up well over 30% in the first quarter.
In many markets, one PC in every home is no longer enough. The number of PCs per household, what we call PC density is increasing. We are seeing strong growth in education, where on a global basis, the number of PCs per hundred students and teachers still remains in the single digits.
Every student needs a laptop. We have a long way to go. In addition, there are over 400 million PCs running Windows 10 that are over four years old today, which is an enormous PC refresh opportunity.
Intel is leading this rejuvenation of the PC with marketing, user experience and purpose-built innovation at the software, silicon and platform level. We shipped Tiger Lake H for notebooks and Rocket Lake for desktops, and customer reception has been enthusiastic.
As a sign of our improving execution, we qualified Tiger Lake H ahead of schedule in 10-nanometers and we expect 10-nanometer unit volumes to cross over 14-nanometers in the second half of the year.
Our Intel Evo platform gives buyers the very best mobile experience and we are deepening our ecosystem engagement with partners including Microsoft, Google and Samsung to advance the PC experience in new innovative ways. We see no signs of PC demand slowing and believe the industry will return to shipping more than a million units a day.
With over 100 million Xeon servers in the install base, the world runs on Intel. Building on that foundation, we recently launched our most advanced high-performance data center platform optimized to power the industry’s broadest range of workloads from the cloud to the network to the intelligent edge.
At the heart of this is our new 3rd-gen Intel Xeon Scalable processor code named Ice Lake, which offers nearly 50% gen-over-gen performance improvements across a range of workloads. We are already shipping Ice Lake to more than 30 customers, including major cloud providers, communication service providers, enterprise and HPC customers. 
Another trend driving demand for more and more optimized computing performance is the infusion of artificial intelligence and machine learning into nearly every application. As the only x86 Data Center CPU with built-in AI acceleration, Ice Lake provides 74% gen-over-gen improvement on AI workloads and our Habana discrete solutions address the needs of those customers with extreme AI demands in areas like training. Sometimes customers want both. For example, UC San Diego will use Intel Xeon and Habana AI accelerators to power their new Voyager super computer.
Mobileye set a new quarterly record. Mobileye’s assisted driving technology continues to win over auto makers with eight new design wins in Q1. We have programs with 13 of the 15 top automotive OEMs. Mobileye continues to open new categories such as delivery transport with a win at Udelv and is rapidly evolving to power L4 fully autonomous robotaxis beginning next year.
We continue to have extraordinary success winning in the next-generation 5G environments. A great example from this quarter is our collaboration with Google Cloud to develop solutions that help communication service providers accelerate 5G deployment across multiple network and edge locations.
We are already seeing significant adoption of oneAPI and oneAPI power tool kits for high performance computing, AI and data analytics. Developers and customers are embracing oneAPI’s open standard space approach for unified programming across architectures and vendors. This includes leading cloud service providers who are embracing oneAPI at scale.
The unprecedented demand for semiconductors has stressed supply chains across the industry. We have doubled our internal wafer capacity the last few years, but the industry is now challenged by a shortage of foundry capacity, substrates and components.
We expect it will take a couple of years for the ecosystem to make the significant investments to address these shortages. This fundamental industry challenge underscores the importance of our unique and differentiated IDM 2.0 strategy.
IDM 2.0 utilizes our internal factory network to reliably deliver leadership products and provide the industry another source of foundry capacity through our new Intel foundry services. Leveraging our IDM advantage, we are working aggressively across our global supply chain to solve substrate shortages to satisfy our customer’s surging demand and gain market share.
For example, by partnering closely with our suppliers, we are creatively utilizing our internal assembly factory network to remove a major constraint in our substrate supply. Coming online in Q2, this capability will increase the availability of millions of units in 2021. It’s a great example where the IDM model gives us flexibility to address the dynamic market.
It’s clear the industry and Intel will need more capacity to meet strong future demand, which is why we are dramatically expanding our foundry capability with Intel Foundry Services, starting with a $20 billion investment for our first large scale foundry operations in Arizona.
We plan to expand other locations and establish Intel Foundry Services as a major provider of committed foundry capacity in the U.S. and Europe, while ensuring a sustainable and secure semiconductor supply for the world.
Since its announcement, the industry response to Intel Foundry Services have already been incredible. We are engaged with well over 50 potential customers today. We are seeing excitement from some of the top technology giants in the world across industry verticals ranging from automotive to high-performance compute and cloud service providers.
We have been responding to and proactively engaging with automotive component suppliers on how we can help them with their supply chains and alleviate shortages in both the near- and long-term.
We are doing our part to address this global supply crisis, but we cannot do it alone. The investment needed at the scale required is immense and it will require close industry and government partnership to address this need.
Governments around the world are recognizing the critical nature of semiconductors and the need to increase advanced chip manufacturing capacity and prepare for the future. We are encouraged by President Biden’s recognition of semiconductor manufacturing as a critical component of our national infrastructure, and its inclusion along with key research and infrastructure investments in broadband in the American Jobs Plan.
Looking ahead, we are confident our strategy will drive innovation and technology leadership for Intel. 7-nanometers is progressing well and IDM 2.0 puts us on a path to restore process performance leadership and build on our industry-leading packaging technologies. With IDM 2.0, we will have superior capacity and supply, resilience by leveraging our internal and external capacity and a superior cost structure. 
By accelerating our clock rate of innovation, we will deliver leadership products in every category. In the PC business, we will follow the successful launches of Tiger Lake and Rocket Lake with Alder Lake, which is currently sampling and will ship in the second half of this year. Within the next couple of weeks, we will tape in the compute tile for Meteor Lake, our first 7-nanometer CPU for 2023.
In the data center, we will follow the strong ramp of Ice Lake with Sapphire Rapids, which is scheduled to reach production around the end of this year and ramp in the first half of 2022. Overall, our 2023 roadmaps are firm and under execution, and our 2024 and 2025 plans are well underway to provide unquestioned leadership product in every category we participate in. The Intel innovation machine is fired up.
Before I pass it to George for the details in the quarter, let me reiterate how excited I am to be back. You can feel the energy inside of Intel, the passion to innovate and the drive that made us great.
We are reigniting our culture to attract, retain, and motivate the best and brightest engineers in the industry. In fact, we have onboarded over 2,000 engineers so far this year including the recent key hire of Sanjay Natarajan, who will co-lead our logic technology development. In total, we expect to add several thousand more engineers by the end of the year.
2021 is a pivotal year as we lay the foundation of our winning IDM 2.0 strategy and invest in our future to accelerate our trajectory and execution. Given the incredible demand for computing, the strength of our IDM 2.0 strategy and the technology investments we are making, I am certain Intel’s best days are in front of us.
George Davis
Thanks, Pat, and good afternoon, everyone. Q1 marked a stronger than expected start to the year, with both our PC notebook and Mobileye businesses achieving record quarters. Our revenue was $18.6 billion, exceeding our guidance by $1.1 billion led by strength in our PC business and the first signs of recovery in the enterprise and government portion of our data center business.
Our IoTG, Mobileye and PSG businesses also posted strong sequential growth as they began to emerge from an adverse macroeconomic environment driven by COVID. As noted in our January guidance, Q1 revenue includes an approximately $580 million one-time corporate revenue item. 
Gross margin for the quarter was 58.4%, exceeding guide by approximately 40 basis points largely due to flow-through on higher revenue. Q1 EPS was $1.39, up $0.29 versus guide, with the majority of the beat on strong operational performance and the balance on gains related to our ICAP portfolio. Note that these non-GAAP results exclude the impact of a charge related to VLSI litigation that are included in GAAP results.
In Q1, we generated $5.5 billion of cash from operations and free cash flow of $1.6 billion. We repurchased $2.4 billion of shares, completing the $20 billion repurchase plan announced in October of 2019.
Going forward, we expect to have lower stock repurchases as we enter an investment phase to support strong demand growth in client, build initial infrastructure for future foundry volumes and make necessary investments to accelerate our return to process leadership. We remain committed to growing the dividend.
Moving to segment performance in the quarter, CCG revenue was up 8% year-over-year, driven by all-time record notebook unit volumes, up 54% year-over-year. Increased volume in the consumer entry and education segments resulted in platform ASPs being down 20% year-over-year. Excluding this upside volume, ASP’s were flat year-over-year.
Combined with growth in our Wi-Fi and Thunderbolt connectivity businesses, revenue grew overall in CCG despite the ramp-down of our modem and Mac sales, and the impact of exiting our connected home division. 
Operating income was $4.1 billion, down 2% year-over-year on higher 10-nanometer mix and increased R&D investment.
DCG delivered revenue of $5.6 billion, somewhat above our expectations, but down 20% year-over-year on a challenging compare. Enterprise and government saw initial recovery with sequential performance above seasonal expectations, while cloud inventory digestion persisted through the quarter as expected.
Strong network SoC growth and products mix drove more than half of the 14% year-over-year ASP decline. DCG operating income in Q1 was down $2.2 billion year-over-year on lower revenue, transition to 10-nanometer and increased R&D investment in our Xeon roadmap.
Our Intelligent Edge businesses were up year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter as COVID-related demand impacts began to subside. Specifically, IoTG revenue was up 18% quarter-over-quarter with strength in retail and industrial segments.
Mobileye revenue and operating margin were both all-time records at $377 million and $147 million, respectively. Mobileye continues to execute well and gain market segment share as the auto industry recovers from pandemic lows. DSG revenue was up 15% quarter-over-quarter with strength in its communications and embedded segments.
Moving to our Q2 and full year outlook. For Q2, we are guiding revenue of $17.8 billion, down 2% year-over-year excluding our NAND business. We continue to see very strong demand for PCs, with fulfillment challenges on industry-wide component and substrate shortages. In data center, we believe revenue bottomed in Q1 and will increase in Q2 as cloud digestion impacts begin to subside, and enterprise and government momentum continues. 
Gross margin is expected to be approximately 57%, up approximately 1 point year-over-year, driven by lower inventory reserves and improved 10-nanometer costs, partially offset by factory start-up costs. We are forecasting EPS of $1.05 per share and a tax rate of 13%.
For full year, we are increasing our guidance provided in March, now forecasting $72.5 billion in revenue, up $500 million from our prior guidance, gross margin of 56.5% and EPS at $4.60, up $0.05 from our March 23 call. We now expect free cash flow to be $10.5 billion, up $500 million versus prior expectations.
We continue to see very strong PC demand with both TAM and our internal PC supply growing double-digits year-over-year, but we expect CCG revenue to be more first-half-weighted than normal seasonality due to industry-wide supply constraints and the continuing ramp-down of modem and Apple Mac revenue.
In data center, we expect increased demand in the second half as both cloud, enterprise and government segments return to growth. Gross margin percent will be lower in the second half of the year, predominantly due to increased 7-nanometer start-up costs and industry-wide supply constraints impacting client volume and mix. We expect increased R&D throughout the year as we invest in our roadmap and IDM 2.0 strategy.
As stated in March, this guide is tempered by DCG-related entity list uncertainty and industry-wide supply constraints, primarily impacting our client, IoTG and PSG businesses. We are working closely with our supply chain partners and leveraging our unique IDM capabilities to mitigate these supply constraints, gaining market segment share and outperform this guide.
With that, let me turn it back over to Tony and get to your questions.
Tony Balow
All right. Thank you, George. Moving on now to the Q&A. As is our normal practice, we would ask each participant to ask just one question. Operator, please go ahead and introduce the first caller.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Harlan Sur from JPMorgan. You may begin.
Harlan Sur
Good afternoon and nice job on the quarterly execution. It was good to see the unveiling of the IDM 2.0 strategy back in March. It was also good to get the 7-nanometer update and continued execution on getting that ramped in 2023. But that’s just a point milestone, right? So in order to sustain your technology and performance leadership with the IDM 2.0 strategy, it’s going to require the means to maintain a cadence on both intranode optimization, but also more importantly to maintain a cadence of continued node strength to 5-nanometer and then ultimately to 3-nanometer. I think the Intel team had previously articulated node migrations kind of every two, two and a half years. Pat, I think you said, a yearly cadence back in March, but I assume that that was internode optimization. But on the move to 7 to 5, can we expect the team to ramp 5-nanometers two, two and a half years after your 7-nanometer ramp and then 3-nanometer ramp two, two and a half years after 5?
Pat Gelsinger
Yeah. Hey. Thank you for the question, Harlan. And overall as I said on the call, we are seeing very good progress on the 7-nanometer team. They are executing now. We are very confident with the changes that we made on that and the move to really embrace EUV and since we have done that we have just seen superb execution.
And as I said in the unleashed event, we expect to move to a yearly cadence or better for our process technology, and we are going to be laying that path out very clearly. We are excited about our team’s ability to get us back to process parity and ultimately to sustained leadership yet again. And I am very happy with the team and some of the investments we are making. The hiring of Sanjay Natarajan that we talked about, the team is getting fired up to execute on that.
We also see, this is just one piece of our technology leadership strategy and as we have seen in the IDM 2.0 strategy, it’s about packaging. It’s about the process. It’s about the full set of IP that we are bringing to the table and at-scale manufacturing and I will say some of the early enthusiasm that we have seen from some of the foundry customer pipeline is really bringing together our packaging technology with the full IDM 2.0 strategy.
So, overall, getting back to the heart of your question, exactly. We are going to increase the cadence of our process technology innovations. We are seeing very positive signs since we made this change and we are on track to parity and again sustained leadership out in the future. Our team is firing on all cylinders and I am excited about what we are seeing as we monitor those milestones very rigorously going forward. This team is on fire and we are executing.
Harlan Sur
Great. Thank you.
Tony Balow
Operator, next question. 
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of C.J. Muse from Evercore. You may begin.
C.J. Muse
Yeah. Thank you for taking the question. I guess a follow-on question Pat to your foundry strategy or IDM 2.0 strategy. I get the vision of gaining scale by investing for yourselves at the leading edge and then backfilling fully depreciated capacity in the 22-nanometer and 10-nanometer nodes over time and the benefit to you guys. But what’s the benefit of opening up the business at the leading edge to foundry customers and how are you going to cajole folks to redesign to your design, and will you have to subsidize them or will that be a subsidy that comes from the U.S. Government? I would love to hear your thoughts there. Thank you.
Pat Gelsinger
Yeah. Overall, let’s just paint the picture a little bit more broadly, C.J. and thanks for the question. On the IDM 2.0 strategy, we are all about making leading edge capacity available for our foundry customers. And the world needs more leading edge capacity and there’s very few companies that can supply it around the world.
So we are seeing a lot of enthusiasm for that. It’s going to cause us to build and expand our capacity more aggressively. And as you suggest, it also means we have a better monetization on the longer life cycle of the foundry business and we are planning on getting to foundry kind of margins with that investment.
Now, as we have already begun engaging with customers, we have seen enthusiasm, right? We have seen enthusiasm that they get to design on our leading process technology and they have more choices for where that might be coming from.
We are also seeing enthusiasm for this idea that they can bring some of their IP and bring our IP to the table, and in particular some of the cloud customers have been very excited about that ability to say, hey, I can take some of my cool ideas and be better optimized and including things like x86 Cores to have a more optimized solution for their market requirements. This is compelling for them.
And then we combine that with all the other strengths that we have talked about such as at-scale manufacturing and in a supply constrained environment like we are in right now, boy, that’s bringing enthusiasm from customers.
Also, we get to do that with all of the other assets that we have with packaging, our software technology. We think this is a strategy that will be very powerful for the industry and we have seen that response from early customers, the EDA tool chains, the IP suppliers. This is really hit the right time in the industry.
And we are seeing the international aspects as well as the government aspect saying, yeah, we need a more geographically disbursed resilient supply chain for something that’s critical to the future of humanity and semiconductor technology. This is the right strategy for the right time and we are seeing great response from it.
C.J. Muse
Thank you.
Tony Balow
Operator, next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. You may begin.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you can talk about the data center group numbers. I guess both the 20% year-on-year decline in cloud and the 14% decline in platform average selling price. How much of that is just this kind of lingering cloud digestion and what’s your visibility to that resuming and is there any competitive aspect you think to the weakness there?
Pat Gelsinger
Yeah. I will start on that one and ask George to jump in a little bit. Overall, as George said in his comments, Q1 was a little bit better than we expected for DCG in terms of revenue and we see it improving as we go through the year. So we saw this at the bottom.
A lot of that was driven exactly as you asked in the question by cloud digestion. We had an extraordinary last year. But now customers are almost through the digestion of that and we are starting to see signs that they want to start the next build phase in their cloud.
But we also saw some just great successes with the enterprise business starting to pick up, some of the networking business wins were very strong for our 5G area. So, overall, we believe we are on a path back to growth.
I’d also emphasize that the Ice Lake launch superb, right? This product major gains in generation-to-generation improvement and absolute areas of differentiation like the AI performance.
And as we said, this is AI-infused now into the 100 million plus Xeon sockets as we are bringing AI into every one of them. This is a powerful new capability and getting great response from our customers overall. So we feel very good about the path that we are on.
And our overall outlook for the year is that we are going to continue to see that momentum build as we go through the year and expect to see the business response, the competitive position, the customers getting on Board. It’s an exciting time for our data center business. George, anything you would add?
George Davis
Yeah. I would say, really if you think about the impact year-over-year in the first quarter, more than half of it was just the fact that we are comparing the bottom -- what we now believe to be the bottom of the digestion phase with a very, very strong Q1.
The other piece is our investment is going up in this space. This is clearly, we are -- as we made progress on 7-nanometer, you are starting to see 7-nanometer costs reflected that weren’t there year-over-year. That’s a good thing. That gets much better over time. Also, almost on the same scale, we have increased OpEx to drive the Xeon roadmap even harder in line with some of the things that Pat was talking about.
And then finally, you also have -- this is a start-up of the 10-nanometer generation for server and so you are starting to see the initial cost impacts on that. We are already seeing very strong 10-nanometer cost improvements in the client side of the business. Some of that is obviously helping DCG today, but it’s going to -- they have got some work still to go through as they start to ramp their mix from 14-nanometer to 10-nanometer.
Joe Moore
Great. And just to make sure, the 14% decline in platform ASP, was that more mix related towards comms or was there something, as well as any decline like-for-like?
George Davis
It was -- you have got a lot higher relative mix of SoCs and whatnot in there. When you are down on revenue, all those mix comparisons get tougher and you are down on the strongest margin mix area.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein. You may begin.
Stacy Rasgon
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I want to ask that question a little bit more explicitly. So if more than half, about half or whatever of the ASP decline year-over-year, the 