Intel Corporation (NASDAQ:INTC) Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call October 22, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Pat Gelsinger - Chief Executive Officer
Tony Balow - Vice President and Director of Investor Relations
George Davis - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
C.J. Muse - Evercore ISI
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Pierre Ferragu - New Street Research
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Operator
Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q3 2021 Intel Corporation Earnings Conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker’s presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to your host Vice President and Director of Investor Relations, Tony Balow. Please go ahead.
Tony Balow 
Thank you, Operator. Welcome to Intel's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. By now, you should have received a copy of our earnings release and the earnings presentation. If you've not received both documents, they are available on our investor website, inct.com. The earnings presentation is also available in the webcast window for those joining us online. I'm joined today by our CEO, Pat Gelsinger, and our CFO, George Davis.
In a moment, we'll brief remarks from both, followed by Q&A. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it. And as such, it does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
A brief reminder that this quarter we have provided both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Today we'll be speaking to the non-GAAP financial measures when describing our consolidated results. The earnings presentations and earnings release available on intc.com include the full GAAP, and non-GAAP reconciliations. With that, let me hand it over to Pat.
Pat Gelsinger 
Thank you, Tony. And good afternoon, everyone. Q3 was a solid quarter where we navigated a challenging supply environment to deliver year-over-year growth on the top line while beating expectations on gross margin and EPS. We had record third quarter revenue in DCG and Mobileye, while IOTG had an all-time record as it continued its recovery from COVID slowdowns.
Our focus on execution continued as we delivered on our initial IDM 2.0 commitments. We broke ground on new fabs, shared our accelerated path to regain process performance leadership, and made our most dramatic architecture announcements in the decade.
We also announced major customer wins across every part of our business, including in the data center with AWS and Google, new EVO designs and client, and exciting Mobileye partnerships with ZEEKR and Sixt SE. The demand for semiconductors remains strong, and our factories performed exceptionally well in a highly dynamic environment, where matched sets post huge challenges for our customers, and overall, industry supply remained very constrained.
The resilience of our factory network was on display, delivering considerable upside and reacting to rapid demand shifts, reinforcing the unique and strategic value of IDM 2.0. While we're still in the early stages of our journey, we are getting better every day. It is clear that we have to move even faster, be even more nimble, and invest now to achieve our goals of undisputed leadership down the road.
I can see the enormous potential that lies ahead, and I couldn't be prouder of the Intel team and the progress that we're making. Let me begin with what we're seeing in the market. Demand remained strong across all of our segments and I continue to believe that we're just starting a cycle of sustained growth, which we are well-positioned to capture.
The digitization of everything accelerated by the four superpowers of AI, pervasive connectivity, cloud to edge infrastructure, and ubiquitous compute are driving the sustained need for more semiconductors and the market is expected to double to $1 trillion by 2030.
In that time frame, the market for leading-edge nodes will rise to be over 50% of the total, while the market for leading edge foundry services, will grow at twice the rate of the semi-industry overall. We are one of the few companies with both the technical and financial resources to win in a market that is increasingly leading-edge and challenged by the extreme physics of rejuvenated and continuing Moore's Law.
PC demand remains very strong. And we believe that 2021 TAM will grow double-digits even as ecosystems shortages constrain our customers’ ability to shift finished systems. Dell, HP, Lenovo, along with other OEMs and ecosystem partners agree that PCs are now a structurally larger and sustainably growing market.
As we head into 2022, we expect the ecosystem supply situation to gradually improve and the PC market will continue to grow as tailwinds from WIN 11, hybrid work models, a larger installed base and compelling new platforms drive PC density, shorter replacement cycles, and penetration of new markets.
Against this backdrop, our products have strong momentum driven by compelling platforms including 30 new EVO Tiger Lake designs for 13 of our OEMs. Tiger Lake has shipped more than 70 million units this year, making it our fastest ramping notebook ever.
We are raising the bar again with Alder Lake, our first performance hybrid architecture products, which I'm pleased to say began shipping in Q3 on Intel 7 and will start to launch next week at Innovation. The Alder Lake family will offer customers significant advantages across a range of workloads including gaming, content creation, and AI acceleration.
Alder Lake will scale from ultra-mobile to desktop and will go to market across our range of segments, form factors, and power envelopes faster than any new architecture in Intel's history. Turning to the data center. New and existing workloads continued to move to the Cloud; security, and privacy requirements are driving enterprise deployments, and the 5G build-out is powering networking.
I remain confident about the long-term of the data center, despite regulatory changes in China and short-term ecosystem supply constraints, impacting some customers. Customers continue to choose Intel for the data center needs. And our 3rd Gen scalable Xeon processor Ice Lake has shipped over a million units since launching in April, and we expect to ship over 1 million units again in Q4 alone.
All of our OEMs are currently shipping systems and we expect all our major cloud customers to have announcements by the end of the year. This includes Google as well as AWS, who have already launched their highest performing Xeon EC2 instances ever, a tremendous milestone resulting from our close collaboration of almost 15 years.
Looking ahead, customers remain very excited by Sapphire Rapids, which we expect to have in production in Q1. Sapphire Rapids sets the standard for next-generation data center processors. It was recently selected by the U.S. Department of Energy to power compute intensive modeling supporting their stockpile stewardship program.
In core and mobile networks Intel is powering the transformation to virtualize Cloud-native deployments. 50% of new core network deployments are now running on off-the-shelf servers. And we expect that to increase to over 80% by 2024. The next-generation transformation is the virtualization of the radio access network known as VRAM. We're working with service providers globally to enable this transition, including Verizon, Rakuten, Dish Network, and others.
Today, nearly all early commercial deployments are running on Xeon and our FlexRAN software reference architecture. We see tremendous opportunity in DRAM and in Q3 we announced the collaboration with Juniper Networks to accelerate future deployments. Overall, we expect global VRAM base station deployments to move from hundreds to hundreds of thousands and eventually millions with private 5G over the next several years.
Finally, Edge compute needs continue to grow and our IOTG business had an all-time quarterly record in Q3. In mobility, the market for automotive silicon is expected to more than double to a $115 billion by the end of the decade as AVs begin to move from the garage to the streets. Mobileye is helping to lead this change, and we recently announced that we will begin offering driverless robo-taxi service starting next year in collaboration with Sixt SE.
From PC to data center to the network, to the edge, Q3 was full of examples of the increasing need for semiconductors and where customers continue to choose Intel. Since my return, we've not only laid out our roadmap for success, but more importantly, we've already started executing at what I like to say is a torrid pace.
Back in March, when we unveiled our powerful new IDM 2.0 strategy, I outlined our course for a new era of innovation at Intel, where I committed to (1) Expand our internal and external manufacturing to address unprecedented global demand for semiconductors. (2) open our doors to be a world-class foundry. (3) regain process leadership. (4) deliver leadership products in every category in which we compete.
We are driving progress in every area, so let me talk through each one starting with how we are expanding our manufacturing capacity and our foundry business. Our factories are executing superbly and construction is on or ahead of schedule across all major sites. Last month, we broke ground on our two new fabs in Arizona, three months ahead of schedule.
As we expand capacity we're using a smart capital approach so that we can adjust quickly to opportunities in the market and to gain share while managing our margin structure and capital spending. There are three elements to smart capital. First, we're focused on aggressively building our shelf, which are the smaller portion of the overall cost of a fab, but have the longest lead time.
Having available shelf space gives us flexibility in how and when we bring additional capacity online. Second, we will make effective use of external foundries, leveraging some of their unique capabilities to ensure we're delivering leadership products. We are already one of the largest foundry customers and in this quarter we announce the key products such as Meteor Lake and Ponte Vecchio will leverage third-parties for some of their tiles.
Finally, we expect our plans to benefit from investments from governments who understand that a healthy semiconductor industry is vital to their economic well-being and national security. With bipartisan support in both houses, we're hopeful that chips act will be passed by the end of this year, allowing us to accelerate decisions for our next U.S. site.
This will also enable a more level playing field with our competitors who enjoy significant support from their governments. We've also seen considerable interest in the EU with the European Chips Act, and the process to select our next site in Europe is proceeding rapidly. Intel remains the only global company committed to building a leading edge foundry in the U.S. and Europe for customers around the world.
Together, IDM 2.0 with smart capital uniquely positions for an enormous and unique market opportunity, including our foundry ambitions. IFS will enable Intel to grow faster, expand monetization of our process and packaging capabilities, leverage our design IPs more broadly, and provide sustainable, superior cash flows from our assets.
Since March, we have shipped our first IFS packaging units for revenue. Engage with well over a hundred potential customers, including several large customers, who are working with us on our leading-edge Intel 18A. And we have multiple customers planning test trips on Intel 16 that will be in our factories early next year.
We also had a significant win with the U.S. government, which selected Intel to provide commercial foundry services in the first ramp of its ramp C program. We're proud of this achievement and the confidence the U.S. government has in us, to deliver them a trusted foundry capability. In July, at our Intel accelerated event, the team and I shared the most detailed roadmap we've ever provided for process and packaging technology.
A roadmap that brings us to performance parity in 24 and clear leadership in 25. I am happy to share that Intel 7, Intel 4, Intel 3, Intel 20A, and Intel 18A are all on or ahead of the timelines we set out in July. For example, on Intel 4, we said we had taped out our compute tile for Meteor Lake.
In this quarter, it came out of the fab and powered up, and within 30 minutes, with outstanding performance, right where we expected it to be. All told, this is one of the best lead product startups we have seen in recent memory, which speaks to the health of the process. In fact, we are using a pre-production release of the Intel 4 in our newest neuromorphic computing chip, Loihi 2.
Finally, on the product front, we are intent on delivering leadership products in every category in which we compete. In August at our architecture day, we started delivering on that promises, we made five major architecture announcements, our most dramatic updates in the last decade.
We introduced hybrid computing with two new generations of X86 core, enabling power-efficient designs that our performance for the most demanding workloads. We unveiled our Intel ark brand for discrete graphic, starting with our outcome, this product, which will be on shelf in one of next year.
We continued our central role in the evolving datacenter landscape with Mount Heavens. Our first asic based infrastructure Processing Unit or IPU, developed in close collaboration with a major cloud provider, our IPUs enable superior security capabilities and let our cloud customers move infrastructure task off the CPU, thereby allowing them to rent 100% of their CPU capacity to their customers.
We also gave additional detail on Sapphire Rapids and its compelling AI and accelerator capabilities. And last, but not least, we opened the curtain on Ponte Vecchio. With our highest ever compute density, the 100 billion transistor device delivers industry-leading slots to accelerate AI, HPC, and advanced analytic workloads.
Early pumps of Ecu silicone is already demonstrating leadership performance, setting an industry record in both inference and training throughput on popular AI benchmarks. Next week at our Intel Innovation event, we will take the next step forward, with the renewed commitment to developers and a host of new tools, technology, and product announcements.
Announcements that really underscore how we are rapidly bringing the geek back. As I have said, we are repositioning the Company for long-term growth, and we are analyzed in the investment plans required to achieve our goals and provide attractive long-term results for our shareholders.
It is abundantly clear to us that we must invest in our future right now, to accelerate past the rest of the industry and regain unquestioned leadership in what we do. Our investment plan is aligned with our IDM 2.0 strategy to rapidly build our manufacturing capacity in response to the expanding market, grow our share, and to accelerate innovation, enabling Intel to leap ahead with new businesses and capabilities in the future.
The recent reorganization around these businesses, along with the new leadership we have added, is already having an impact. However, our CFO, George Davis, recently advised us that he has decided to retire in the first half of next year. We are very grateful to George for his dedicated service, and the leadership with the Company, and he will be working with us for a smooth transition.
We are currently engaged in a search for George's successor, and he is helping us with the process. I naturally want to give his successor an opportunity to participate in optimizing our long-range plan. We would not want to hold a critical Investor Day without the new CFO being in place. As such, we have decided to move our event to February 17th of next year.
This has the added benefit of hopefully being a more in-person event, while giving us a better view of the government investments from which we expect to benefit. We have made this decision for very practical reasons of George's retirement. The Company is running well. We are confident in our process, technology, and product roadmaps.
Our business is healthy and our markets remain strong. And above all, we are executing on our plan. Given the new timing of our Investor Day, I do want to take this opportunity to paint the general picture of what our plan looks like and George will share a few more details in a few minutes. We have a huge opportunity with new businesses in graphics, networking, foundry, and mobility. All large and growing segments.
When combined with the continued expansion of our current client and datacenter markets, we cannot, and will not, miss this opportunity. Investing now will enable us to reposition the Company to deliver double-digit revenue growth as these investments pay off. While these investments will pressure free cash flow in the short-term, our operating cash flow will remain strong, reflecting the high quality of our business.
And we've remained committed to a healthy and growing dividend. As with free cash flow, our gross margins will be below current levels for the next 2-3 years before recovering, but will remain comfortably above 50% as we continue to exercise financial prudence. We have the utmost confidence that our investment plans will ensure the Company's long-term success and deliver attractive returns for our shareholders.
I look forward to sharing the details with you in Q1 and I am confident you will agree. Before I turn it over to George, let me finish by saying that when I came to the Company, I had three goals for the year: create the strategy, build the team, and rebuild the culture and execution machine. We are only eight months into the journey, but we have already achieved a lot.
We now have a clear strategy. We've built the team by bringing a new leadership and adding over 6,000 new engineers to bolster our incredibly talented team. We've reorganized our business units to focus on our key markets. And starting next year, we expect to begin breaking out our results to more closely align with these changes, and to drive increased visibility and accountability.
And finally, as I outlined today, momentum is building as we drive a path to our roots of execution and innovation. The entire Intel team understands the work we have ahead of us. But we remain confident about our future. We have the right strategy, the right team, and we are motivated to win. I remain convinced that our best days are still ahead. With that, let me turn it over to George.
George Davis
Thanks, Pat, and good afternoon, everyone. We delivered solid results with revenue up 5% and gross margin up 130 basis points year-over-year, driven by strong demand in our DCG and IOTG businesses, despite the highly constrained, industry-wide supply environment. Q3 revenue was $18.1 billion slightly below our guide due to shipping and supply constraints that impacted our businesses.
Demand remains strong in our PC business, with particular strength in commercial, desktop, and higher-end consumer notebooks. Offset by inventory digestion in lower-end consume and education segments. Gross margin for the quarter was 57.8% exceeding guide by 280 basis points, primarily due to an increased mix of desktop and premium notebook products.
Q3 EPS was $1.71, up $0.61 versus guide. $0.47 of this beat is predominantly due to a McAfee related special dividend associated with the divestiture of their enterprise business, and a onetime tax benefit. We had a strong operating beat of approximately $0.14 per share as well, largely driven by demand for higher-end products and clients, and lower operating expenses relative to guide.
In Q3, we generated $9.9 billion of cash from operations and free cash flow of $5.9 billion and paid dividends of $1.4 billion, moving to segment performance in the quarter. CCG revenue was $9.7 billion down 2% year-over-year on a challenging compare and continued industry-wide component shortages that are restricting lower end system sales.
Note that when excluding the impact of wrapping down our Apple CPU and motor businesses, CCG revenue is up approximately 10% year-over-year. This highlights the strong execution and underlying demand in our client business platform, ASPs in client were up 9% year-over-year, and 16% sequentially on increased desktop volume and a richer mix of premium notebook products.
Operating income was $3.3 billion down $237 million year-over-year, primarily due to increased investments in our technology and product roadmap. DCG revenue was $6.5 billion, up 10% year-over-year on continued recovery in our enterprise and government segment and isolate ramp.
These results were slightly below expectations due to industry-wide component supply constraints that primarily impacted our enterprise customers and areas of softness in PRC, including cloud, as customers adapt to new regulations. Platform ASPs were up 3% year-over-year on improved mix, driven primarily by increased enterprise and government volume.
Operating income was $2.1 billion, up 8% year-over-year on higher revenue, partially offset by increased investments in our technology and product roadmap. IOTG achieved all time record quarterly revenue of $1 billion, up 54% year-over-year on a broad-based recovery from COVID-driven lows, with particular strength in the industrial and retail segments.
Operating margin was $276 million, up 352% year-over-year, returning to pre -COVID levels of profitability. PSG revenue was $478 million, up 16% year-over-year. Demand continues to significantly exceed supply, impacting Q3 results and Q4 forecast. Operating margin was $76 million, up 90% year-over-year.
Mobileye revenue was $326 million, up 39% year-over-year, and achieved an all-time Q3 record. Operating margin was $105 million, up 123% year-over-year. Mobileye continues to execute well, winning key designs and rapidly growing revenue and profits. Moving to our Q4 outlook.
We are forecasting $18.3 billion in revenue, up $200 million quarter-over-quarter, with DCG seeing modest -- more modest growth than previously expected as China demand and supply challenges persist.
CCG is expected to be relatively flat quarter-over-quarter, as strong demand for our higher-end products bolstered by the launch of Alder Lake, are being offset by weaker OEM demand for lower end products as they prioritize their limited component supply to support higher-end system sales.
We see our edge businesses continuing to recover year-over-year from COVID -related impacts. Gross margin is expected to be approximately 53.5% unchanged from prior expectation, and continues to include the impact of a one-time charge related to our Intel Federal Business. Excluding this charge, gross margin will be approximately 55% down 3 points quarter-over-quarter on new product ramps and factory start-up charges.
We're forecasting EPS of $0.90 per share and a tax rate of 13%. We had previously expected $0.13 of the Q3 ICAP gain, to have occurred in Q4, which accounts for the change from prior Q4 expectations. Turning to our full-year outlook, we are holding revenue guidance at $73.5 billion, with gross margin up modestly to 57% and EPS of $5.28, up $0.48 from our prior guide.
Consistent with the investment mode we are in under IDM 2.0, we expect CapEx of $18 to $19 billion and free cash flow of approximately $12.5 billion, up $1.5 billion versus prior guidance. In our CCG business, we expect full-year revenue to be approximately flat year-over-year, as growth from an increasing TAM is offset by the ramp-down of our Apple modem and CPU revenue, and the exit of our home gateway business.
Adjusting for all of the Apple in home gateway business, CCG would've been up approximately 9% year-over-year. For DCG, we expect full-year revenue to be down low to mid-single digits year-over-year, due to a more competitive environment consistent with our expectations, lower demand from China, and industry-wide component supply constraints.
Before moving on to some comments on our longer-term performance, I want to briefly cover changes to our non-GAAP reporting, beginning in 2022, to more closely align with our semiconductor peers. First, we will be removing stock-based compensation from our operating segment and non-GAAP results. Secondly, we will exclude all gains and losses from our ICAP portfolio.
The change that allows better comparability between periods by eliminating large variations in performance, as we saw this quarter. We also expect to align our segment reporting with our announced new business unit configuration. We will have more details on what to expect here next quarter. Moving to long-term financial guidance.
As Pat mentioned, with the movement of Investor Day to Q1, we want to provide some insights into the early years of our plan. First, our revenue outlook reflects fundamentally strong TAMs across our operating businesses, with growth driven by our leadership products. We see revenue in 2022 of at least $74 billion despite ongoing supply constraints.
As supply normalizes and our investments add capacity and drive leadership products into the marketplace, we expect to see our revenue growth accelerate to a 10% to 12% CAGR over the next four to five years.
For gross margin, with the impact of our investment in capacity and the acceleration of our process technology, we expect gross margins between 51% and 53% over the next 2-3 years before moving upward. We are in a time of accelerated investment in capital, process node acceleration, and R&D, as the foundation for changing the trajectory of the past few years.
In alignment with our IDM 2.0 strategy, we are forecasting 2022 CapEx of $25 billion to $28 billion, with potential for further growth in subsequent years. We believe our investments position the Company for very attractive long-term returns. Before I hand off to Q&A, as Pat mentioned, I plan to retire from Intel in May next year.
I've been a public Company CFO now for 15 years and it is time for me to spend more time with family and friends as part of the next chapter in my life, it has been a true privilege, and frankly quite exciting to work with Pat and the leadership team on the launch of IDM 2.0, and I look forward to following our transformation over the next several years.
There is no Company like Intel. And the immense talent here serves as a wonderful foundation for the transformation ahead. With that, let me turn it back over to Tony and get to your questions.
Tony Balow 
Alright. Thank you, George. Moving on now to the Q&A. As is our normal practice, we would ask each participant to ask just one question. Operator, please go ahead and introduce the first caller.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of Joseph Moore of Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Joseph Moore
Great. Thank you. I'm wondering if you could talk about the gross margins next year. What is the -- you talked about investment in 10-nanometer, but you took those ramps this year, is it the simultaneous ramp of 10, and then startup cost of 7 that pulls that down? And why wouldn't you recover from that in subsequent years as you mature deals thereafter? And I also wanted to ask just as a follow-up, does the accounting change with the numbers have been lower, if not for the change to take stock compensation out of the numbers?
Pat Gelsinger 
Let me start with the margin question and then I'll ask George to step in and help. First, I'd just say, this is a pivot point for the Company. We are repositioning Intel for growth to be a long-term growth Company. We see the massive opportunity that we have.
Near-term, we could have chosen a more conservative route with modestly better financials, but instead, the Board, the management team, and this is why I came back to the Company, choosing to invest, to maximize the long range business that we have. Overall, these are great markets that we're going to be leaning into with very unique positions that we have with our technologies and products.
As you look specifically to next year's margins, here, we see that the decline is driven really by 2 factors. 1 is the new manufacturing nodes. And as you've heard us say, we're going to rapidly move through our 5 nodes in 4 years, and this will have pressure on the margins near term as we ramp those up.
But we'll quickly, on an accelerated pace, give us leadership capabilities that will improve margins over the horizon. We're also investing in our future. These investments that we're making now in our roadmap will pay off, as those products return to leadership products, beget leadership pricing, which begets leadership margins.
So as we said in our prepared remarks, comfortably above 50% and we're confident in the multi-year recovery of the margins that result from, again, competitive process, competitive products will produce great results for us long term.
So overall, a couple of years of pressure returning over that horizon as we see these growth areas and our datacenter, our client business in these four new growth markets, the networking, graphics, mobility, autonomy, foundry. And we've made a strong choice. We're going to be decisive and we're very transparent, right?
And upfront, we're laying out an understanding of where we're going and we elected to give that guidance earlier than we might have otherwise, not just for next year, but over the horizon as well. So now is the time and we're making that decision boldly and aggressively. George, you want help in the last parent of the question?
George Davis
Sure, happy to. The -- we're announcing the accounting change in 2022 just to give people a heads up. It’s -- we think it's a pretty modest impact on gross margin. So it works within the range that we've given for the next couple of years. Obviously, we guided the next 2 to 3 years, not 2022. And so Pat did a good job of laying out what are the key drivers there. And the changes that we're doing on the accounting side are really -- we're out of alignment with the industry on stock-based comp.
And we're also I think like you probably we just assume not see these large adjustments in a quarter that are for ICAP related activities. And so we're taking that out of non-GAAP as well. Quite frankly, with those two combined, it was net accretive with those two together over the last couple of years. But we think it's the time to make these change. And we think it's consistent with what the industry has done.
Pat Gelsinger 
And the other factor that we did talk about is also starting to give accountable units against our new business unit structures as well, which will give increased transparency to the marketplace and will also give increased accountability 