Intel (NASDAQ:INTC) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call July 22, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Pat Gelsinger - Chief Executive Officer 
Tony Balow - Head of Investor Relations 
George Davis - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Timothy Arcuri - UBS 
C.J. Muse - Evercore ISI 
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC Nikko
Tristan Gerra - Baird
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO Capital Markets
Operator
Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Intel Corporation Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [ Operator instructions]. As a reminder, today's program is being recorded. And now, I would like to introduce your host for today's program, Tony Balow, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
Tony Balow
Thank you, Operator. Welcome to Intel's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. By now, you should have received a copy of our earnings release and the earnings presentation. If you have not received both documents, they are available on our investor website, incc.com. The earnings presentation is also available in the webcast window for those joining us online. 
I am joined today by our CEO, Pat Gelsinger at our CFO, George Davis. In a moment, we'll have brief remarks from both, followed by Q&A. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements, based on the environment as we currently see it. And as such, it does include risks and uncertainties. 
Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. A brief reminder, that this quarter, we have provided both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Today, we will be speaking to the non-GAAP financial measures when describing our consolidated results. The earnings presentation and earnings release available on intc.com include the full GAAP and non-GAAP reconciliations. With that, let me hand it over to Pat.
Pat Gelsinger
Thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining our second quarter earnings call. It's a thrilling time for both the semiconductor industry and for Intel. We're seeing unprecedented demand as the digitization of everything is accelerated by the superpowers of AI pervasive connectivity, cloud to edge infrastructure, and increasingly ubiquitous compute. Our breadth and depth of software, silicon, and platforms, and packaging and process, combined with our at-scale manufacturing, uniquely positions Intel to capitalize on this vast growth opportunity. 
Our Q2 results, which exceeded our top and bottom line expectations, reflect the strength of the industry, the demand for our products, as well as the superb execution of our factory network. As I've said before, we are only in the early innings of what is likely to be a decade of sustained growth across the industry. 
Our momentum is building, as we once again beat expectations and raise our full-year revenue and EPS guidance. Just laying out our IDM 2.0 strategy in March, we feel increasingly confident that we're moving the Company forward toward our goal of delivering leadership products in every category in which we compete. While we have work to do, we are making strides to renew our execution machine. 7-nanometers is progressing very well. 
We've launched new innovative products, established Intel Foundry Services, and made operational and organizational changes to lay the foundation needed to win in the next phase of our Company's great history. Here at Intel, we're proud of our past, pragmatic about the work ahead, but most importantly, confident in our future. Now, let me share some more detail on what we're seeing in the market. As compute is becoming more ubiquitous, we're seeing sustained strength in client demand. 
The ecosystem is back to shipping over 1 million PC units a day despite grappling with component shortages. I expect PC TAM growth will continue in 2022 and beyond, driven by 3 factors. First, PC density, or PCs per household, is increasing as COVID has irreversibly changed the way we work, learn, connect, and care for each other. For example, even as we emerge from COVID, we're seeing many companies opt for hybrid work models versus full return to the office. Second, replacement cycles are shortening on a larger and aging installed base. 
The shift to Notebooks, the deployment of new operating systems and new better experiences such as our Evo platform, will continue to drive refresh on the 400 million PCs over 4 years old, that are running Windows 10. Finally, new markets and users are adopting the PC as the device of choice, and penetration rates are increasing as worldwide GDP growth makes the PC more affordable to more people. In areas like education, we we see huge potential as the number of PCs per 100 students and teachers remains in the single-digits. These trends underpin my belief that we are still in the early stages of a sustainable cycle of PC growth. 
In our OEM, end channel partners have resoundingly affirmed this perspective. Beyond client, we are seeing near-term recovery across traditional datacenter market, as well as explosive long-term demand from the cloud to the intelligent edge. Our digital society is creating data at an unspeakable pace, and AI is the key to unlocking the value from this data and turning it into information. 
As the appetite for meaningful data grows and the cost of compute falls, AI workloads are proliferating into more areas. And as a result, we expect the AI market to grow at more than 20% a year. This is why we are infusing AI across everything we do. Similar revolutions are occurring in the areas of connectivity where the data center will be transformed by silicon photonics and 5G, which is hitting its stride with O-RAN in an autonomous driving, all markets in which we have substantial leadership positions. 
On the other side of the equation, a strong demand environment continues to stress the supply chain. While I expect the shortages to bottom out in the second half, that will take another 1 to 2 years before the industry is able to completely catch up with demand. IDM 2.0, which combines our internal manufacturing capacity with the use of third-party foundries, best positions us to weather these challenges and work with our ecosystem partners to build a more resilient supply chain. 
With major FAB Construction projects underway in Oregon, Arizona, Ireland, and Israel, we are investing for the future, but we are also taking action today to find innovative ways to help mitigate industry constraints. For example, on our Q1 call, I talked about using our internal assembly test network to help with portions of the substrate manufacturing process, a benefit uniquely enabled by our IDM 2.0 strategy. I am pleased to say that this effort is now online and is significantly accelerating the availability of millions of substrates for our products. 
We are also working to build the EUV ecosystem which requires significant support around the equipment, including photoresis, mass generation, and metrology. A great example is IMS Nanofabrication, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel. Using a novel multi-beam technology, IMS provides the large majority of EUV vast writing tools to the industry, and we plan to accelerate investments to advance this pivotal ecosystem capability. In the second quarter, we continue to see Intel Foundry services build momentum. 
We are now engaged with more than 100 potential customers on the basis of our 3 key value propositions. First, IFS will have the widest offering of IP ranging from x86 to ARM to RISC-V,, which allows our customers the flexibility to design products using our IP catalog, as well as their own. Second, we will offer our customers comprehensive access to a range of mature and leading edge process and packaging capabilities. 
I am pleased to announce we recently signed our first major Cloud customer to use IFS packaging solutions. I'll have even more news to share on IFS customer momentum on Monday. Third, IFS will offer scale manufacturing that gives our customers confidence we can meet their demand. As part of that, we are committed to creating a more robust, geographically balanced, and secure supply chain. 
Along with our $20 billion FAB investment in Arizona, and $3.5 billion advanced packaging investment in New Mexico, we plan to build additional capacity to support both internal and IFS growth. The U.S. Innovation and Competition Act is a tremendous step forward, to catalyze investments in manufacturing, here in the U.S,and will serve as a tailwind to our IFS efforts. After my recent visit to Europe, we're seeing similar enthusiasm from E.U. governments, customers, and overall ecosystem. And we expect to announce our plans for our next U.S. and European sites by the end of this year. 
Moving to our continued focus on execution. As I said at the start of the call, we are pragmatic about the work in front of us, but supremely confident of our future. Under IDM 2.0, our factory network continues to deliver and we are now manufacturing more 10-nanometer wafers than 14-nanometer. As 10-nanometer volumes ramp, economics are improving with 10-nanometer wafer cost 45% lower year-over-year with more to come. We will talk more about our plans for process and packaging leadership in our Intel Accelerated event this Monday. 
I hope you will join me for the critical update. On our path back to unquestioned product leadership, customers continue to choose Intel. Using our broad portfolio of assets, we will continue to compete aggressively for market segment share. In Q1, we gained PC share with record notebook sales, following that with record Q2 revenue. We launched 12 new processors and Tiger Lake is ramping even better than expected with more than 50 million units shipped to-date. 
Finally, our future client roadmap remains strong and we expect to ship several million units of Alder Lake to customers in the second half, and Meteor Lake remains on track for production in 2023. Beyond the CPU, we reached a major milestone with our partners at Microsoft with the announcement of Windows 11. We deepened our co-engineering efforts to enable new experiences, including running Android applications seamlessly on PCs and optimize for Intel-based platforms. 
We're gaining similar momentum through the year in the datacenter. Q1 was the low point in revenue for the year and we exceeded our plan in Q2. We expect DCG to grow sequentially, achieving double-digit year-on-year growth in the second half as it accelerates through the year. 
Ice Lake is ramping broadly to customers, including Microsoft, Alibaba, Baidu, Oracle, and other major service providers and Enterprise customers. Additionally, we continue to extend our leadership and networking by delivering a truly cloud agnostic platform using Xeon scalable processors and accelerators in partnership with Ericsson. This will allow operators like Verizon to introduce a virtualized RAN solution across all deployment scenarios, including existing footprints. 
Finally, Mobileye further solidified its position as the leading supplier of advanced driver assistance platforms. In Q2, we announced a major win with Toyota and closed 10 additional design wins for over 16 million total lifetime units. Earlier this week, we hit another exciting milestone as Mobileye became the first industry player to start testing autonomous vehicles in New York City, a challenging driving environment for humans, let alone AVs. With vehicles in Israel, Germany, Detroit, Tokyo, Shanghai, and coming soon to Paris, Mobileye has the largest global footprint in the AV industry, enabled by our unique REM distributed mapping technology. 
By year-end, we will have over 1 million vehicles providing telemetry for dynamic crowd-source mapping, a unique and powerful advantage of Mobileye. At Intel, we have a saying, "We begin with sand and the rest is our people." At no other point in our history have our people and culture been more important to our success. We recently made strategic organizational changes to further strengthen our technology leadership and accelerate our execution. 
We have restructured our data platform group into 2 business units: the Data Center and AI Group, led by Sandra Rivera, an Intel veteran with deep knowledge of data center silicon and software, and the Network and Edge Group, which will be led by Nick McKeown, a renowned leader in the networking industry. We have also created the Accelerated Computing Systems and Graphics Group, led by Raja Koduri, to increase the Company's focus in key growth areas of high performance computing and graphics. We're also highly encouraged to have slowed NetWise rejoin to strengthen our design engineering core. 
Finally, Greg Lavender, who joins as Intel CTO and GM of our software and advanced technology group, will drive a unified vision for our software strategy across Intel and assure it remains a competitive differentiator for us. I have the utmost confidence in our leadership team to drive the future of Intel. Together, we will continue to sharpen our focus and execution, accelerate innovation, and unleash the talent inside Intel. While there's more work ahead, we are moving at a torrid pace and I look forward to providing several updates in the coming months. 
On Monday, I invite you to attend Intel Accelerated, where we will lay out our roadmap to regain process performance leadership, and share what comes next for our world-class packaging technologies. In October, we will hold our Intel Innovation Event, a geek fest for the industry to come together and explore the technology that will drive the next decade and beyond. 
Finally, at our Investor Day on November 18th, we'll pull it all together and present a compelling long-term business plan to drive sustained growth and shareholder value creation. As you can see, we have a lot playing for the rest of the year. But for now, I'll turn it over to George to discuss our Q2 performance and outlook.
George Davis
Thanks, Pat. And good afternoon, everyone. As Pat said, we had a very strong Q2, and are raising full-year revenue guidance by $1 billion despite a highly constrained supply environment. Q2 revenue was $18.5 billion, exceeding our guidance by $700 million. This upside was led by continued strength in our PC business and earlier-than-expected recovery in both our IOTG business and the enterprise portion of the data center segment. The PC and Mobileye businesses both achieved record Q2 revenue. 
Gross margin for the quarter was 59.2%, exceeding guide by 220 basis points, primarily due to improved mix and strong flow-through on higher revenue. Q2 EPS was $1.28. up $0.23 versus guide, largely on strong operational performance across the board. In Q2, we generated $8.7 billion of cash from operations. free cash flow of $5.1 billion, and paid dividends of $1.4 billion. Moving to segment performance in the quarter. DCG revenue was $10.1 billion, up 6% year-over-year. 
The growth of our core client business is up 14%, when we exclude the impact of the ramping down Apple modem business and the exit of our home gateway business. This shows the strong underlying growth in our client business despite a supply constrained environment. Platform ASPs in client were up 4% sequentially on richer mix within notebook and increased desktop volume. 
On a year-over-year basis, the strength in consumer entry and education led to lower overall ASPs. Operating income was $3.8 billion up 32% year-over-year on higher revenue, lower inventory reserves, and reduced 10-nanometer costs. DCG revenue was $6.5 billion exceeding our expectations, but down 9% year-over-year versus a challenging compare and a continued competitive environment. 
Sequentially, DCG grew 16% with all segments growing quarter-over-quarter, and Enterprise returning to year-over-year growth. Operating income was $1.9 billion, down 37% year-over-year, primarily on lower revenue, the 10-nanometer production ramp, and increased R&D investment. IoTG revenue was $984 million, up 47% year-over-year on a broad-based recovery from COVID - driven loss, and up 8% quarter-over-quarter, led by strength in the retail segment. 
Operating margin was $287 million, up 310% year-over-year, returning to pre-COVID levels of profitability. Mobileye revenue was $327 million, up 124% year-over-year, but down sequentially due to COVID related slowdowns at automotive OEM s. Operating margin was $109 million. Mobileye continues to execute extremely well, and we are seeing continued design win momentum. DSG revenue was $486 million, down 3% year-over-year due to significant supply constraints. Demand continues to significantly exceed supply for FPGA s. Operating margin was $82 million, up 3% year-over-year. 
Moving to our Q3 and full-year outlook. For Q3, we are guiding revenue of $18.2 billion, up 5.4% year-over-year. We remain in a highly constrained environment where we are unable to fully supply customer demand. In CCG, we continue to see very strong demand for our client products and expect TAM growth to continue. However, persistent industry-wide component in substrate shortages are expected to lower CCG revenues sequentially. We expect supply shortages to continue for several quarters, but appear to be particularly acute for clients in Q3. In data center, we expect enterprise and government, and Cloud to show further recovery in Q3. 
As a result, we expect to see strong year-over-year growth in the quarter. Sequentially, we are expecting modest growth that is expected to accelerate further in Q4. Gross margin is expected to be approximately 55%, down approximately 150 basis points year-over-year, as 7-nanometer gains momentum, and the Meteor Lake pilot line ramps. We're also seeing pre -PRQ reserves on our Alder Lake product. We are forecasting EPS of $1.10 per share, and a tax rate of approximately 4%. The forecast includes approximately $0.10 of 1-time tax benefit from our on-shoring of certain entities as part of our long-term tax planning. 
Turning to our full-year outlook. We are raising our revenue guidance by $1 billion to $73.5 billion, with gross margin of 56.5% and EPS of $4.80, up $0.20 from our prior guide. Consistent with the investment mode we are in under IDM 2.0, we expect Capex of $19 to $20 billion this year, and free cash flow to be $11 billion up $500 million versus prior expectations. 
In our CCG business, we expect full-year revenue to be flat to slightly down year-over-year, as growth from an increasing TAM is offset by supply constraints and the ramp-down of our Apple modem and CPU revenue, and the exit of our Home Gateway business. Adjusting for all of the Apple and Home Gateway business, CCG would've been up high single-digits year-over-year. 
For DCG, we expect full-year revenue to be slightly down year-over-year, with second half revenue significantly higher than first half, as E&G and Cloud recovers. As a result, we expect Data Center will return to year-over-year growth in both Q3 and Q4. Gross margin % is expected to be lower in the second half of the year, predominantly due to 7-nanometer factory ramp, worsening supply constraints impacting client volume and mix, and a one-time charge in Q4 related to our Intel federal business. For your models, apps and this one-time charge, the implied Q4 gross margin would be approximately flat to Q3. 
It is good to remember that our investment in 7-nanometer represents a normal impact to introducing new process technologies. Since April, we have seen supply chain inflation happening faster than we are electing to pass through to our customers, further impacting our second half gross margin outlook. We expect increased R&D through the year as we invest in our roadmap and IDM 2.0 strategy, resulting in year-over-year growth in OpEx, of approximately 10%. With that, let me turn it back over to Tony and get to your questions.
Tony Balow
All right. Thank you, George. Moving on now to the Q&A, as is our normal practice, we would ask each participant to ask just 1 question. Operator, please go ahead and introduce the first caller.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. Our first question comes in the line of Tim Arcuri from UBS. Your question please.
Timothy Arcuri
Hi, thanks. Pat, there were some headlines recently about you potentially looking at maybe building out your Foundry business by M&A, and I'm wondering, can you just comment broadly, do you think that M&A would significantly accelerate your Foundry efforts? I know right now you are basically offering the 22-nanometer process, and you probably have to offer more processes to pull those efforts forward. So I'm wondering if you can comment on the headlines that were out there. Thanks.
Pat Gelsinger
Hey, thanks for the question, Tim, and great to be with you all today. So first I'd say, obviously we can't comment specifically on the speculation that you've been hearing, but feel what I'm saying is, we're very happy with the build-out of the IFS business. As you say, it will include mature nodes, our 22 SFL, it will also include our leading edge nodes as well, our packaging offerings.t That overall, we're just seeing great momentum over a 100 customers in our pipeline. And we fully expect that this is going to be a great business for us. 
At this point, we would not say that M&A is critical, but nor would we rule it out. Our view is that industry consolidation is very likely. The intense R&D, the need to move to modern and leading edge nodes, the massive capital investments required, we just simply view, that smaller players simply won't be able to keep up, and foundries without leading edge capabilities will be left behind. And we're continually seeking ways to accelerate our plans with IFS. If an acquisition can help, we will certainly not rule it out. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of C.J. Muse from Evercore ISI. Your question, please.
C.J. Muse
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. Just wanted to clarify, George, the 1-time charge in Q4, roughly $300 million. Can you give a little more color on that? And then I guess Pat or George, bigger picture question. As you're going through this transformation, IDM 2.0 strategy, is there a free cash flow target that you have in your mind in the coming 1 or 2 years or now? Thank you.
George Davis
Let me -- I'll start with the one-time charge, without going into too much detail. It is related to our high performance compute activities through our Intel Federal. It's crystallized in Q4 at the time that we execute a contract. So that's the reason for the timing.
Pat Gelsinger
Yeah. And I would just say the HPC business for us, consistent with the reorg that we just announced, C.J., we just see a huge opportunity for us as we start delivering our GPU HPC, specialized versions of the Xeon product. We see a great opportunity. The reorg brings more focus on this business. So even though there is the one-time charge in Q4, we see this as a great business for us for the long term. And one that just will bring many, many technological market and business benefits. So George, I'll let you answer the second half.
George Davis
In terms of free cash flow, obviously very important. We're focused on that. We've raised it this year, as you saw on the call. We will go through not only free cash flow, but capital and all of the normal key financial metrics for the Company at the November Analyst Meeting. We'll defer until that time on that question, but thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Credit Suisse. Question, please.
John Pitzer
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Pat, I wanted to ask a bigger picture question just on pricing in the quarter, and your philosophy around pricing. It sounds like within the client business mix explains a lot of the decline in ASPs year-over-year. But when I look at the Data Center Group, especially with enterprise up and calms down year-over-year, I was a little bit surprised to see ASPs in that group down about 7% year-over-year. Can you help us understand what's mix versus like for like? And as you think about regaining product dominance, how do you use pricing to kind of maintain a share as you get your feet back underneath you?
Pat Gelsinger
Yeah. And broadly speaking, my comments will be a little bit specific to start with on the datacCenter business proper. Data center business has good, good recovery in Q2. And with that there was some ASP declined, some of that's competitive driven. A little bit of that is mix-driven, but a bit more competitive. 
Our outlook there is, is that we see fairly stable pricing and market segment share in the data center business for the second half of the year. And that's driven by, I will just say, we're bringing everything we got to the table to continue to win back the market, and with that, our software resources, our deep investments with our customers, the increasing strength of our product line. 
Yeah, I'd also highlight they have a very strong ramp for the Ice Lake product, which is very competitive. Clear leadership on a number of metrics., the critical one such as AI performance. And we're also starting to see the return to growth in Cloud as you note, but stronger growth in the enterprise portion of the market. 
Overall, DCG, good growth second half over first half. We'll be very competitive with that business but it's a supply constrained environment overall, which is the similar case for the client business. 
Overall, we don't see a lot of movement on ASP first half to second half in either of those businesses. It really is about supply limitations. And as George commented, we're not passing through all of our supply constraint p rice increases that we're seeing from our supply chain. We really see it as an opportunity to be investing with our customers, rebuilding their confidence and partnership for the future. And we're feeling very good about our overall strength, momentum, and competitiveness as we go into the second half.
George Davis
And C.J., I would just add. The Q2 number which looks like a double-digit ASP decrease for CCG, I would just remind you that that's a year-over-year comparison where we have a much bigger mix of the small Core products, which is really driving that. You saw units were up 33% and ASPs were down 15%. It's really the mix that is reflected there.
John Pitzer
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research. Your question, please.
Stacy Rasgon
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I have a question on depreciation. It's been coming down sequentially for the last several quarters. It was actually down again sequentially this quarter. How is that possible given the CapEx ramp? Like what's going on there? And how do we think about depreciation 's impact in gross margin going forward, given it's run rating under $10 billion annually in your CapEx is now going to $20 billion annually. Like how do we think about those?
George Davis
Yes, Stacy, so the absolute numbers are down -- are trending. What is counter-intuitively, and really it's NAND moving from non-GAAP into GAAP. There's no depreciation for the NAND business anymore, as it's under the accounting once it's held for sale. It's an anomaly. Yes, we expect depreciation to increase as we're ramping Capex over the next several years. And again, in terms of how all of that translates into everything from gross margins to free cash flow, we'll cover all that at the Analysts Day. But you're not missing anything.
Stacy Rasgon
Got it. Thank you.
George Davis
You bet.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Your question, please.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you could address the timing on Sapphire Rapids. There was some stuff on your blog, end of June, that there was a delay. It doesn't sound like from customers, there's been that much of a change. But just maybe from your standpoint, how should we think about the timing of that product and how it affects you over the next 12 months?
Pat Gelsinger
Thanks, Joe. I'll take that one. Overall, as I said, you have the Data Center business strong momentum. And we really felt Q1 is the low point, Q2 gaining momentum, second half Ice Lake ramp being very strong. And obviously customers are now very anxious and excited about Sapphire Rapids' huge performance improvements, but also huge feature capabilities as part of that. So we did add a bit more time for the validation cycle. We are now deep into the validation. It's in the hands of customers with volumes sampling underway. 
And they're quite excited about not just the performance capabilities, core count increases, but a lot of the new technologies in the area of new memory capabilities, new PCI, Gen 5 capabilities, many of the new features that we've brought in here for AI performance in particular. Overall, it's going to be a great product and we're expecting to see a very strong ramp of it in the first half of next year. And this, we think, will just continue to build the momentum of the Data Center business as we've indicated strong second half as forecast, and we're going to build on that as we go into the next year with Sapphire Rapids. And the overall roadmap execution is improving, as we look for '23 and '24 to deliver unquestioned leadership product across everything that we do, including the Data Center.
Joe Moore
All right. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya from Bank of America. Your question, please.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. Back one more on the Foundry business. We have heard that Intel commit, I think 20 billi