KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC) Q3 2020 Earnings Conference Call May 5, 2020 5:00 PM ET Company Representatives Rick Wallace - Chief Executive Officer Bren Higgins - Chief Financial Officer Kevin Kessel - Vice President of Investor Relations Conference Call Participants Harlan Sur - JP Morgan John Pitzer - Credit Suisse Krish Sankar - Cowen & Company C.J. Muse - Evercore Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities Timothy Arcuri - UBS Quinn Bolton - Needham & Company Joe Quatrochi - Wells Fargo Operator Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the KLA Corporation, Third Quarter Fiscal 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations with KLA Corporation. Thank you, sir. Please go ahead. Kevin Kessel Thank you, Charlie, and welcome to KLA's earnings conference call to discuss the results of the March 2020 quarter and the outlook for the June quarter. Joining me today is Rick Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer; and Bren Higgins our Chief Financial Officer. During today's conference call we will discuss quarterly results for the period ending March 31, 2020 that we released today after the market closed and can be found on the investor relations section of our website. Today's discussion and our financial results and outlook is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in today's earnings press release and the earnings slide presentation posted on the KLA IR website, along with our newly published shareholder letter.  Our IR website also contains a calendar of future Virtual Investor Events and Presentations, Corporate Governance Information, including our quite period policy, as well as links to KLA's SEC filings, including our most recent Annual Report and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosure in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today are also subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements. I'd like to now turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace.  Rick Wallace Thank you all for joining us today in these extraordinary times. I hope you and your families are safe and healthy.  KLA delivered strong results in the March 2020 quarter. Revenue finished at the mid-point of our guidance and non-GAAP EPS was above the midpoint of the guidance range, demonstrating strong demand from our customers and exceptional execution across our global KLA operations.  KLAs performance in the March quarter highlights how the company's operating model and long term strategic objectives provide a strong and resilient framework to guide our execution and consistently deliver on our commitments, even during unprecedented challenges.  In our prepared remarks today, we'll discuss how KLA’s unique and sustainable competitive advantages helps us consistently deliver strong relative results, while showcasing the enduring strength of the KLA investment thesis. We will also discuss how KLA has positioned to confidently navigate through these periods of uncertainty.  To lead off, I want to highlight KLAs priorities and actions in addressing the COVID-19 crisis. Please turn to slide four.  First and foremost, we are prioritizing the health and safety of our employees, their families and our partners. We began taking proactive measures for our teams as soon as we saw the outbreak begin in China, including immediately eliminating non-essential travel, canceling our Annual Sales Conference, our Global Engineering Conference, as well as the KLA Lithography Users Forum at SPIE.  A large percentage of our workforce is in China in the Pacific region and we initiated a global crisis management team to ensure we had insight into needs and activities at the local levels to provide assistance as needed. As information and shelter in-place orders began to roll out across the globe, we prioritized rapid communications to our employees and we immediately instituted guidelines and policies to ensure that our essential work force could operate in a safe condition and we remain focused on that daily.  Specifically as our teams worldwide have largely had to ship to working from home, we worked hard to maintain our ability to support our customers in this unique scenario. In our manufacturing facilities we are focused on creating a significantly reduced employee footprint, we have rigorous social distancing and creating guidelines and health-checks to allow our teams to be safe while staying on track with shipping, installing and delivering the essential services we provide to our customers. I'd like to personally commend our global team for their resourcefulness and commitment to executing under these challenging circumstances.  Our customer feedback has been outstanding, and our business is healthy and performing well under unprecedented conditions. I'm really proud of the way we as a company have responded to these challenges. It really reflects the extraordinary strength of our teams, guided by the KLA core values of perseverance, drive to be better, high performing teams and indispensability.  For our global employee base, we recognize that this crisis also extends well beyond a disruption to their work life, and we're focusing on continuing to ensure that we can support them in any way that we can. I'd also like to note that we took action to support our communities by creating a KLA Foundation Global Relief Fund, where we committed $2 million in Global Relief Efforts to benefit local non-profit organizations which are working in areas identified as having a high number of affected individuals, and with those who are with high risk populations in Asia, Europe, Israel and the United States. Above all, we remain advocates for the holistic health and safety of our employees, as well as the communities they work and live in.  Turn now to slide five, for some comments on the industry demand environment. Though we were encouraged to see many of our customers in China return to full production late in the quarter, COVID-19 has already impacted global economic growth. The question remains whether a result in a short term push out in global demand supported by substantial levels of monetary and fiscal stimulus from governments or whether it leads to long term demand decline followed by an elongated recovery.  Many economic prognosticators now expect a global recession as the effects of business disruption; rising unemployment and reduction in consumer spending are felt across the global economy. So at KLA we're not predicting the depth or duration of this impact until we have more evidence about the evolution of the crisis, but if there's one thing we do know, it’s the situation is rapidly evolving and at this stage the full impact of COVID-19 on consumer demand and the global economy remains unclear.  But from our point of view, although the Semiconductor equipment industry is currently supply constrained, customer demand remains strong in the first half of 2020 and to underscore that point, KLA delivered record shipments of our Semiconductor Process Control systems during the quarter and total backlog finished at record levels exiting March.  It's also important to point out that KLA’s most levered to our customers’ strategic R&D investments and their product roadmaps for leading edge technologies across Foundry, Logic and Memory. Our customers view these investments as critical to their long term growth strategies and their competitive positioning and therefore they tend to be more resilient.  Now in the near and medium term, we see increased Semiconductor device demand for enterprise and cloud applications in response to the surge in work-from-home and a pick-up in gaming. Now, this is somewhat offset by a decline in some consumer facing end markets.  We also see strong results in our specialty Semiconductor markets with demand driven by 5G infrastructure investment, particularly in China. We are fulfilling urgent requests to supply products essential and MEMS manufacturing and power technologies focused on medical applications such as smart thermometers and ventilators, which are directly addressing the crisis.  Its clear healthcare will be one of the many industries which will be profoundly impacted with the acceleration of technology implementation, virtual capabilities and automation. We know that KLA’s not immune to the impact this crisis may have on customers’ capital investment plans over the next several months. However, we do draw some confidence from the historical evidence that our customers tend to maintain their investment in next generation development in times of Semiconductor Industry Contraction and Uncertainty, which makes KLA's revenue more resilient in times like this.  As an example, I’d point out that in 2019, according to the recent Gartner Market Share Analysis, total WFE investment was estimated to decline about 6%, but KLA Semiconductor Process Control business grew at 1%.  Taking a step back even further, it's worth highlighting that KLAs business has always declined less than the industry in periods of general contraction. Also KLA’s service business which accounts for roughly one quarter of our total revenues today, and has strong and growing profitability, also tends to demonstrate exceptional resilience throughout the business cycle given the unique nature of our service model with 70% to 75% of the revenue being subscription like contracts.  Given the continued focus on innovation and execution, combined with our market leadership and strong balance sheet, KLAs in a very strong position to navigate this period of uncertainty and capitalize on opportunities to drive long term growth for our industry once the conditions eventually normalize. Even though we couldn’t have anticipated what we're experiencing today, we believe that secular factors driving the industry demand and our 2023 revenue and EPS targets remain largely intact, and they'll drive diversified growth with operating leverage over the long term.  Finally, in many ways, the global response to COVID-19 is accelerating secular drivers of the industry growth that we outlined in our 2019 Investor Day and that gives us strong optimism that we and our industry will emerge from this crisis stronger than before.  We always knew we had compelling secular growth trends a year ago, but if anything, these trends will be stronger and more important going forward. Whether it's the move to Industry 4.0 or Factory Automation, the rising Semiconductor content in automobiles, remote medical diagnostics and care, 5G ubiquitous connectivity supported by continued datacenter build-outs, more new, more capable handset offerings, the new work from home reality or the overall acceleration of digitization and move to the data era. Everything will depend on advancing Semiconductor technology that KLA helps to make possible.  Please turn to slide six and seven for a review of the KLA operating model and our strategic objectives. As in prior industry downturns, one thing that remains a constant, serving as our guide as we manage through this uncertainty is the KLA operating model. This codifies our corporate values and management principles and defines the critical core competencies that drive our performance and represents a solid and enduring framework for the execution of our long term strategic objectives.  The KLA operating model is essential to aligning the company on a consistent strategy that ties accountability to results, ensure as product development execution and facilitates continuous improvement, while ensuring the company always operates with strong financial discipline, while driving long term performance and profitability objectives.  As we indicated during our September 2019 Investor Day, we're also leveraging the KLA operating model to strengthen the performance of new businesses. We have recently reorganized the former Orbotech units under the leadership of the long term KLA Executive Vice President, Oreste Donzella, creating the new electronics packaging and components or EPC Group. This new organizational helps drive synergies and growth across a broad electronics value chain, including Specialty Semiconductor Packaging, Printed Circuit Boards and Flat Panel Display.  Guided by this and with our global teams’ experience, navigating through various industry cycles and downturns over the years, we have the benefit of history and the processes in place to maintain a high level of investment, which is critical to our market leadership and our customers technology road map, while at the same time protecting and preserving operating margins.  Please turn to slide eight for the March quarter 2020 business highlights. In closing, I'd like to mention four highlights that stood out this quarter. First as I mentioned at the outset, KLA achieved record company wide shipments, driven by record shipments in our Semiconductor Process Control segment and we ended March with record backlog. This illustrates the overall momentum we are having in the marketplace across various product platforms with particular strength in Mask Inspection, Pattern Optical Inspection and Films Metrology and it further shores up our confidence and the long term future growth position for the company.  Secondly, we're really pleased to see KLAs customer success being further validated by third party market share analysis from Gartner. KLAs market leadership is the result of ongoing successful execution of the company's customer focused strategy, which is based on investing a high level of R&D to drive differentiated products in a portfolio of products and solutions that address the most critical process control market challenges, and we're pleased once again to see the success of our strategy being validated by our customers purchasing decisions.  The report shows that Process Control grew as a percent of overall WFE and KLA strengthened its process control market leadership by gaining 2.5 points of market share. The past year marked a record or a new record demand in KLAs core franchises such as optical wafer inspection, overlay metrology and mask inspection. This data also shows KLAs first meaningful revenue in e-beam inspection since 2015. We expect the Process Control Intensity will continue to stay at a similar level in calendar 2020 or better, and that KLA will maintain our market leadership driven by an expanding EUV investment environment, as well as advanced technology development in memory and continued Semiconductor industry expansion in China.  Third, we saw continued strength in both Foundry and Logic. Foundry and Logic revenues grew sequentially as customers accelerated the ramp of both 7 and 5 nanometer nodes and continue to prioritize their leading edge technology roadmaps. And finally, our services business continues to perform well, and remains on track for growth and steady free cash flow in calendar 2020 despite all the uncertainty. Total KLA service revenue rose to $373 million, thanks to the continued growth of our Semiconductor Process Control install base, as well as the expanding service businesses from recent acquisitions.  Please turn to slide nine for my concluding thoughts. To summarize, before I turn the call over to Bren, we're in extraordinary times and in that we are facing both unprecedented uncertainties as well as opportunities. But amidst this background one thing that's not changing is KLAs strong fundamentals, and we're confident that our strategies and actions we are taking today will continue to lead us in the right direction and position us to emerge even stronger and more resilient.  KLA’s March quarter indicates the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategy. We expect to be able to continue to meet customer needs and expand our market leadership, while protecting operating profits, generating strong free cash flow and maintaining our capital return strategies.  As I stated earlier, we will remain laser focused on continuing to preserve the health and safety of our employees and their families. We believe that this is a new reality and we're going to be in this for some time, but we're confident we can work together to get through it and continue to deliver in the way we know how.  I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, Bren, to discuss our financial results and guidance. Bren. Bren Higgins Thank you, Rick. Please turn to slide 11 for quarterly financial highlights. KLA delivered a solid quarter in March with revenue at the midpoint and non-GAAP EPS finishing at the upper end of the company's guidance ranges.  Total revenue was $1.424 billion; non-GAAP gross margin was 61.2%, at the upper end of the guided range for the quarter of 59.5% to 61.5%, driven by richer product mix that was modeled at the beginning of the quarter. Non-GAAP operating margin was 34.6%.  GAAP EPS was $0.50 and non-GAAP EPS was $2.47. At the guided tax planning rate of 13%, EPS would have been $2.52. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP EPS includes an impairment of goodwill of $257 million and a $22.5 million loss related to the extinguishment of our November 21 notes that we refinanced in a new bond offering in February.  Let me briefly provide more context on the goodwill impairment. During the March quarter and consistent with our policy, KLA conducted its annual goodwill impairment assessment based on the discounted cash flows for each reporting unit. Given the uncertainty of the current environment and the associated unknown long-run trajectory of economic growth, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $257 million in the third quarter to write down a portion of the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the Orbotech acquisition.  Before going into further detail on quarterly results, I want to echo Rick's comment and say that while the COVID-19 situation is unprecedented and presents new challenges to running our business, one thing remains clear. KLA has a resilient business model, underpinned by a rock solid investment grade balance sheet. We will continue to be agile in the marketplace and actively manage and responsibly navigate our way through this crisis.  Additionally, we remain committed to maintaining our investment grade credit ratings and our recent bond offering and refinancing means that we are in a great position and don't have any bond maturities until late 2024.  To further expand on that point, I want to highlight that in February KLA issued $750 million and 3.3% 30 year bonds to redeem $500 million in aggregate principal amount, 4.125% senior notes due in November of 2021, and S&P upgraded our credit rating one notch, earlier in the quarter to BBB+.  Given our solid balance sheet and consistently robust free cash flow that our business generates, we believe KLA has enough cash and liquidity to respond to any operating condition, while still being able to execute our long term strategies, invest at a high level and new capabilities across our product portfolio, and maintain our well-articulated capital returns approach, which includes our current $3.40 annual per share dividend.  Regarding capital management and deployment, as you would expect, we are reviewing all operating expenses and capital expenditure plans to prioritize and optimize them given the current business conditions and economic environment. One thing is certain, we remain committed to returning 70% or more of free cash flow to shareholders over the long term, balanced between dividend payments and share repurchases.  In March we were consistent with our longstanding capital return framework, returning 113% of quarterly free cash flow to investors, consisting of $133 million in quarterly dividend distributions and $316 million in repurchases of common stock. KLA currently has approximately $1 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorization.  Please turn to slides 12 and 13 for the breakdown of revenue by segments and markets, products and regions. Revenue for the Semiconductor Process Control segment, which includes associated service business was healthy at $1.18 billion. Foundry was once again very strong in March at approximately 55% of Semi Process Control revenue, up from 52% last quarter.  Memory was 31% in March, down from 40%. Logic was 14% versus 8% last quarter. Revenue for the specialty Semiconductor Process segment was $85 million, up 13% sequentially driven by strength in RF, MEMS and advance packaging. PCB display and component inspection revenue was $160 million, down 14% sequentially and slightly below our internal plans, as these businesses which are closer to consumer markets softened somewhat as we move through the quarter.  Now, for the breakdown of revenue by major products and regions, starting with the distribution of revenue by major product category. Wafer inspection was 38%, patterning which includes reticle inspection was 21%. Wafer inspection and patterning are part of the Semiconductor Process Control segment.  Specialty Semiconductor Processes was 5%, PCB display and component inspection revenue was 7%, service was 26% of revenue in the quarter and other was 3%. The regional split of revenue was as followers: China was 25%, Taiwan was 24%, Korea was 21%, the U.S. and Japan were 11% each, Europe including Israel was 5% and the rest of Asia was 3%.  Please turn to slide 14 for other income statement highlights. Total operating expenses were $378 million, including $215 million or R&D expense. Operating expenses were modestly below our targets for the quarter, with the largest delta plan coming from lower travel and entertainment expenses and a slower hiring pace than was originally planned.  Operating margin was 34.6%. Other income and expense in the March quarter was $38 million. The non-GAAP tax rate was 14.6% and above the company's long term tax planning rate of 13% due to negative capital market impact on expense deductions and the company's employee deferred compensation program.  Going forward, based on the company's expectations for geographic distribution of profit, you should continue to use 13% as a long term tax planning rate. Non-GAAP net income was $389 million and the company had approximately $157 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding.  Turning now to a review of our balance sheet and free cash flow on slides 15 and 16. KLA ended the quarter with $1.6 billion in cash, total debt of $3.4 billion and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by investment grade ratings from all three agencies. KLA has a history of consistent free cash flow generation and high free cash flow conversion. Our innovation and differentiation in the market place is what drives our industry leading growth in operating margins and ultimately our free cash flow conversion.  Cash from operations and free cash flow were both strong coming in at $442 million and $399 million respectively. Free cash flow margin was 28% and the annualized free cash flow yield was above 6%. For a frame of reference, over the last 10 years KLAs free cash flow margin averaged 25%.  KLAs business model generates strong free cash flow and is very resilient across the various phases of the business cycle and economic conditions. Over the past five years the company has averaged 98% free cash flow conversion.  Please turn to slide 17 for a snapshot of our capital return activities. KLA continues to execute on its commitment to return capital to shareholders in the form of both dividends and share repurchases. The dividend pay-out has increased at a CAGR of approximately 15% since inception 13 years ago.  Share repurchases have also increased over the years, with the average price paid to repurchase shares being roughly $73 with approximately $4.1 billion deployed for repurchases since 2010.  Now for our June 2020 guidance on slide 18. I will start by saying we have mitigated the supply chain issues related to COVID-19 that arose over the past quarter, but fluidity related to this situation makes it a daily challenge to manage, as countries around the world handled their respective coronavirus responses.  The uncertainty and added complexity associated with global social distancing policies, such as travel restrictions and mandated quarantine periods continue to pose challenges to our ability to install and support KLA systems. Accordingly we have taken extra measures to maintain flexibility and continuity of supply for critical components in our supply chain.  Somewhat unique to KLAs business model are longer material lead times and volume hedging strategy to enable flexibility with key components in our products, which slows inventory velocity, but allows us to weather short term disruptions in supply.  For short lead time parts we maintain dual supplier strategies, mostly with suppliers in different countries to optimize capital commitments and ensure we can ship supply to maintain flexibility to meet fluid customer delivery schedules.  In addition, our customers rely on KLA to enable their long term technology development programs, which tend to be sustained and protected in periods of short term demand uncertainty and disruption, such as we are currently experiencing.  We continue to maintain close ongoing communication with our suppliers to ensure continuity and identify supply chain pressure points and we remain confident today in our ability to meet our demand and to be able to continue to service and support our customers in the field.  KLA is managing this situation with both determination and connectivity. We have fully mobilized our teams and are taking action to minimize disruption in our operations, meet essential customer needs and maintain the resilience of our supply chain to limit the overall impact of COVID-19 across our business. Given the scale of our worldwide service and support infrastructure, we are supporting our customers with local resources and are executing well. However, it is taking longer in some cases to complete rigorous acceptance criteria for certain products without the support of our factory centric team. In all cases, we've done our best to contemplate these factors in our guidance, including the broader range of guidance in our June quarter outlook, which is as follows.  Total revenue for the June quarter is expected to be in a range of $1.26 billion to $1.54 billion. Foundry is forecasted to be about 51% of Semi Process Control System revenue, depicting the strength we continue to see amongst our Foundry customer base. Memory is expected to be approximately 39%. Logic is expected to be about 10% of Semiconductor Process Control System revenue.  We forecast gross margin to be in a range of 59% to 61%, as product mix is modestly less favorable and slightly higher costs are expected in our service business than in the March quarter. Other model assumptions include operating expense of approximately $380 million, interest and other expense of approximately $40 million and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 13%.  Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $1.58 to $2.64 and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $1.81 to $2.87. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately $156 million shares.  For my financial conclusion, please turn to slide 19. I'd like to share our perspective on the demand environment for the balance of the year 2020. First, I'd like to address the new export rules published by the U.S. Department of Commerce on April 28, which will go into effect on June 29, 2020. Those rules will expand export license requirements for U.S. companies to sell certain items to companies in China that have operations that could support military end uses, even if the item sold by the U.S. companies are used for civilian purposes only. On this issue, I would note that the new rules do not impact the majority of our business as most of our products are manufactured and assembled outside of the United States.  I would also like to point out that we routinely ensure that our products are not used for prohibited military end-uses in China. However, the question remains today whether these new rules when enacted would make it more difficult to ship to certain customers in China that might be deemed military end-users under the new rules as a result of their potential activities supporting military end uses.  We are still assessing the new rules and working with trade associations and others to obtain additional guidance from the U.S. Government regarding the scope and practical application of these new rules. Once we have clarity on how these rules will be implemented, we can better determine the impact on our business if any in the second half of the calendar year. Notwithstanding this recent trade issue, our outlook for customer demand in the Semiconductor Process Control business is virtually unchanged today from what we expected in February. As I mentioned earlier, we continue to drive our supply chain in our factories to meet current customer expectations for deliveries. However, we do expect that the overall macroeconomic environment will put pressure at some point on some of our customers demand for products in certain segments and ultimately could affect their capacity investment plans, both in magnitude and timing.  Obviously the depth and duration of this impact is unknown today, so we will continue to run our business to maintain the flexibility to respond to any demand scenario. We do expect our customers to continue to progress their technology roadmaps across all segments and KLA products are critical to those transitions. We expect investments to continue in this area at a normalized pace, independent of the macro environment. For our more consumer centric businesses, we have seen some weakness over the course of the March quarter, and while we are well positioned, we would expect some impact of these businesses compared to what we thought in early February.  Finally, collaboration across global teams and partners on large scale product development programs without direct in-person engagement is creating some execution challenges and while early, could put pressure on release dates for new products expected over the next 12 months.  To summarize, as we look ahead to the balance of the year, KLA continues to be well positioned to navigate the uncharted territory we find ourselves in. We derive our strength from our strong balance sheet and liquidity encumbered from not having any bond maturities until late in 2024. Our strong operating performance helps us prioritize critical investments across our technology portfolio and protects our margins, while simultaneously generating strong and consistent free cash flow.  Our market position has never been stronger. Despite the usual competitive noise, our share gain and improving process control intensity service as validation that our portfolio of products and solutions are adding critical value to our customers’ technology roadmap differentiation and their ability to yield these new technologies at production volumes.  How we allocate capital has never been more important. You can be assured we will continue to make smart capital allocation decisions, continue to invest in the important R&D to support our customers and new product launches, fuel our long term growth strategy, maintain our ongoing dividend strategy and preserve our ability to be opportunistic of that program to fully deploy the free cash flow of the company.  Lastly, predictability and business model resiliency matter more now than ever. Our growing diversification, significant exposure to our customers’ critical process technology transition, our subscription like service revenue stream and our focus on driving operating leverage are key attributes of our business model. We are confident we can continue to excel and manage in these areas and position KLA for a brighter future.  Before we begin the Q&A, just a reminder that KLA will participate in many virtual investor webcasted conferences this quarter. Please keep an eye out for notice of future event scheduling and we look forward to seeing some of you virtually 