KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC) Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call April 29, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Kevin Kessel – Vice President-Investor Relations
Rick Wallace – Chief Executive Officer
Bren Higgins – Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Krish Sankar – Cowen & Company
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
CJ Muse – Evercore
Harlan Sur – JP Morgan
Joe Moore – Morgan Stanley
Joe Quatrochi – Wells Fargo
Patrick Ho – Stifel
Timothy Arcuri – UBS
Vivek Arya – Bank of America
Operator
It’s Priscilla, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation March Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. All participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Kevin Kessel
Thank you, Priscilla, and welcome to KLA's fiscal Q3 2021 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of our March quarter and the outlook for the June quarter. With me today is Rick Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer; and Bren Higgins, our Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended March 31, 2021, that we released this afternoon after the market close in the form of a press release, shareholder letter and slide deck. All are available on the KLA IR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in today's earnings materials posted on our website.
During today's call whenever we make references to a year, we were referring to the calendar year. Our IR website also contains future investor events as well as presentations, corporate governance information and links to our SEC filings, including the most recent annual report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those that we make on the call today are also subject to those risks, and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
I'd like to now turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace. Rick?
Rick Wallace
Thanks, Kevin. And thank you for joining KLA’s earning calls today. KLA’s March quarter results demonstrate continued momentum in our business. We delivered strong 27% year-over-year revenue growth. Non-GAAP gross and operating profit rose 30% and 48% year-over-year, respectively and free cash flow grew 47% to a record level. We accomplished these by executing our strategic vision amidst the dynamic business environment. Year-to-date, we've seen a sharp increase in business levels across each of our major markets. This is primarily due to secular demand trends, driving semiconductor industry growth across a broad range of markets and applications such as 5G and cloud computing.
Our customers are increasing their strategic CapEx investment to address these growth markets while continuing investment in leading-edge R&D efforts. Against this backdrop of strong demand, we continue to navigate evolving customer requirements and dynamic supply chain challenges. Still KLA has not missed a beat and continues operating at an exceptionally high level, delivering on our commitments, staying focused on creating value for our partners, customers, and shareholders.
We would be remiss if we did not mention that achieving these results would be impossible without the extraordinary contributions of our talented global teams who always rise to the challenges of meeting our customer's needs in an increasingly complex global business environment. Three key things enabled KLA’s record results in momentum. One, successful innovation and market leadership, two, the resourcefulness and talent of our global workforce, and three, the strength and resiliency of the KLA operating model.
Before we discuss this further, let me begin by touching on how we see the industry demand environment now. Strong secular demand trends continue to shape multiple markets and are fueled by the increasing digitization of end markets and industries. In addition, there's a heightened focus on the strategic nature of our customers' investments around both leading-edge development, optimizing facility utilization and regionalization.
As a result, our WFE forecast has improved even further from January, reflecting the strength of demand we're experiencing over the past couple of months, with momentum continuing into calendar 2022. In this environment, KLA is experiencing a sharp increase in customer demand for systems and support for 2021 deliveries. And our expectations for KLA revenue growth have increased from our initial assessment in January.
This momentum in customer investment is happening against a backdrop where process control intensity maintains its momentum and KLA continues to drive market leadership at levels approximately 4x the nearest competitor. Propelled by the upside we are experiencing in the underlying WFE markets, KLA market leadership, increasing long-term process control intensity, our broader reach into electronics ecosystem and the contributions of our large and growing service business. KLA is on track to achieve our 2023 financial targets well ahead of our original expectations.
KLA’s market leadership results from the ongoing successful execution of the company's customer-focused strategy, which is based on investing a high level of R&D to drive differentiation with a unique portfolio of products, technologies, and strategies that address the most critical process control market challenges. We're pleased to continue to see the success of our efforts being validated by our customers’ purchasing decisions.
Here are some recent success stories to illustrate the point. The most recently published Gartner data shows that in 2020, the total optical inspection market grew at a rate double that of the growth rate of the overall WFE market to approximately $1.9 billion with KLA maintaining our strong market leadership and 83% share of this critical market for process control.
Many already know that KLA is participating in the automotive electronics through our semiconductor packaging and PCP product lines. We're excited by near-term plans to launch new versions of our process control products, tailored to the automotive industry. This quarter expect to hear more about how KLA has positioned our wafer inspection portfolio to help customers drive higher reliability, quality and yield in automotive applications in both 200-millimeter and 300-millimeter production, which will help address some of the reported automotive semiconductor shortages going forward.
Calendar year 2021 is position to be the sixth consecutive year of revenue growth for KLA, demonstrating strong through-cycle growth, the success of our diversification strategies and our market leadership in process control and a large and growing contribution from our services business. Let's briefly cover the top five highlights from the March quarter results. First, we saw continued strength and breadth in foundry/logic demand in the quarter, as expected memory demand also grew as memory customer's plan for growth and equipment investment in 2021 to meet improving end demand.
We expect higher business levels across a broader set of customers in the March quarter, but the demand momentum continuing throughout 2021 across major end markets. The strength in demand we're seeing reflects KLA’s essential role in supporting our customers drive to innovate and continuing to invest in future technology notes. Second, Gartner's recent market share report for 2020 sized KLA’s share of process control over 53% for the year.
KLA’s market share in process control has maintained a steady growth trajectory over the past 10 years. Highlights of the 2020 report show, KLA continuing to strengthen our core franchise and optical inspection and strong momentum and gains EBM inspection and optical metrology. Increasing investment in leading-edge foundry/logic, the accelerated adoption of EUV continues to be major factors, driving equipment spending. KLA’s market leadership once again demonstrates the success of our portfolio approach to solving complex customer requirements at the leading-edge.
Third, our services revenue was $428 million in the March quarter or 24% of total sales, with over 75% of services revenue in our Semiconductor Process Control segment resulting from recurring contract agreements. Services is on track for another strong double-digit growth year, driven by our growing installed base, higher utilization rate and increasing expansion of service opportunities in the trailing edge and the EPC group.
Our semi process control service business revenue continues to grow faster than the rate of the installed base, growing approximately 2.8 times faster over the last five years. Fourth, this was another growth quarter for our electronics packaging and components or EPC group, highlighted by record quarterly bookings for the semiconductor – the specialty semiconductor business. Growth was driven by automotive, 5G wireless connectivity and advanced packaging applications across various end markets.
With EPC, KLA is now providing a more comprehensive and broader product portfolio across fast growing new markets in the electronics value chain, such as RF, automotive semiconductors, and advanced packaging. As it relates to EPC's opportunities in advanced packaging markets, KLA strengthened our engagement with the top five semiconductor market leaders in packaging. And we're expanding our reach with those sets.
KLA is ramping our investment in advanced packaging market to drive adoption of new technologies in this exciting growth market, in addition to new inspection products for high level production and assembly. Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our shareholders, in the March quarter, we repurchased $273 million of our common stock and paid a $139 million in dividends, for a total capital return of $412 million or 71% of free cash flow of $585 million, which was also a record.
Last July KLA’s Board of Directors authorized the 11 consecutive annual dividend increase to a yearly run rate of $3.60 per share. Since its inception in 2006, KLA’s dividend payout has grown at a CAGR of approximately 15%. We believe KLA’s track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders.
Before Bren gets into greater details of our financial highlights, let me recap. KLA’s March, 2021 results demonstrate the critical nature of KLA’s products and services and enabling the digital transformation with our lives, the resiliency of the KLA operating model and our commitment to productive capital allocation. KLA is exceptionally well positioned at the forefront of technology innovation with a comprehensive portfolio of products to meet demanding and customer requirements, balancing sensitivity and throughput. Semiconductor and electronics landscape is constantly changing.
We're seeing broadening customer interest driven by more technology innovation than ever before at the leading edge. We believe there are multiple secular factors driving industry demand and KLA will continue to benefit from and position us to exceed our 2023 financial targets reach them earlier than anticipated. At the same time, our strategy of driving diversified growth, strong long-term operating leverage should provide robust cash flow generation and consistent capital returns to our shareholders.
And with that, I'll pass the call over to Bren.
Bren Higgins
Thank you, Rick. Results this quarter highlighted the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategies. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs and expand our market leadership, while growing operating profits, generating record free cash flow and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation. Total revenue in the March quarter was $1.8 billion at the top of the guided range. Non-GAAP gross margin was 62.9%, above the midpoint of the guided range is stronger revenue in favorable product mix drove upside in the quarter.
Non-GAAP EPS was $3.85 at the upper end of the guided range, GAAP EPS was $3.66. Non-GAAP total operating expenses were $407 million, including $239 million of R&D expense and $168 million of SG&A. At KLA technical application support for our customers is included in SG&A and was $42 million in the quarter. The combination of R&D expense and technical applications represents about 70% of total operating expenses. Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue was very strong at 40.4%.
Given higher revenue expectations for the remaining three quarters of 2021, product development requirements, particularly in programs supporting next-generation reticle inspection capabilities, regionalization of additional customer engagement resources, and increased investment in our infrastructure globally, particularly in expanding our manufacturing footprint and completing our new HQ2 in Ann Arbor, Michigan. We expect operating expenses to be approximately $412 million to the June quarter. We were budgeting quarterly operating expenses to increase sequentially $3 million to $5 million a quarter or the near-term horizon.
Given top line expectations for 2021 and fueled by double-digit growth over the past two years. We expect that the business will continue to outperform our target operating model, both in terms of overall profitability and operating margin leverage. Non-GAAP net income was $598 million, GAAP net income was $567 million. Cash flow from operations was $646 million and free cash flow was $585 million. This resulted in a free cash flow conversion of nearly 100% and a very healthy free cash flow margin of over 32%.
Our segment revenue was strong in the quarter, driven by growth in our Semiconductor Process Control business. The EPC group delivered results mostly in line with our model heading into the quarter. Revenue for the Semiconductor Process Control segment, including its associated service business was $1.51 billion, the sequential quarterly increase of 9% and up 28% compared with March of last year. The approximate semiconductor customer mix was as follows. Foundry/logic was strong as expected at 69%, and memory was 31%. In memory, the business was split roughly 55% NAND and 45% DRAM.
Revenue for the specialty semiconductor process segment in March was $92 million, up 1% sequentially and up 8% over the prior year. Demand in this segment was driven by growth in RF, power and advanced packaging. PCB, Display and Component Inspection revenue was $205 million, up 14% sequentially, and up 28% year-over-year with mobility markets driving strength in advanced PCB and finished component inspection.
Revenue by major product category and region are both broken out in the shareholder letter in slides. From a balance sheet perspective, KLA ended the quarter with $2.4 billion in total cash, total debt of $3.4 billion and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by strong investment grade ratings from all three agents. In terms of cash flow and capital returns, Rick already covered the highlights. We believe our track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders. While circumstances can change, our current expectation is that our capital returns profile for calendar 2021 will exceed 85% of the expected free cash flow.
As it relates to guidance, our overall semiconductor demand at WFE outlook is expanded further from our view in January, where we characterize the WFE market to grow in the low teens plus or minus a few points. We are revising up our view for the WFE market to grow on a percentage basis in the low-to-mid 20s with a bias to the upside at calendar 2021 from approximately $61 billion in 2020, reflecting the strengthening of demand we have experienced over the past couple of months across all segments.
Also in earnings in January, we provided a high level outlook of business levels being roughly flat quarter-to-quarter for calendar year 2021. As we look ahead, based on the strength of our current backlog, sales funnel visibility over the next couple of quarters, along with expected product lead times, we are encouraged by the sustainability of our current demand profile for the year. As a result, we would expect the company revenue to continue to improve sequentially quarter-to-quarter throughout the remainder of the calendar year, with the second half growing versus the first half, as more KLA manufacturing capacity comes online to support this robust customer demand environment. This growth is fueled principally by our Semiconductor Process Control business. This business is positioned well in terms of expected performance in 2021, relative to the overall WFE market.
Our June quarter guidance is as follows. Total revenues expected to be in a range of $1.855 billion plus or minus $100 million. Foundry logic is forecasted to be about 68% and memory is expected to be approximately 32% of semi process control systems revenue to semiconductor customers. Within memory, DRAM is expected to be about 60% of the segment mix. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 61% to 63%, as product mix expectations normalize in the June quarter.
Based on increased revenue volume and product mix expectations for 2021, we are now modeling gross margin to be between 62% and 62.5% for the calendar year. While in any given quarter, the mix of our business will affect our gross margin results, the structural trends, both in terms of product cost and product positioning remain compelling in our sustainable tailwinds going forward. Other model assumptions include non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $412 million, interest and other expense of approximately $40 million and an effective tax rate of approximately 13.5%.
Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.20 to $4.8. And non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $3.47 to $4.35. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 154.5 million shares. In closing the industry dynamics driving semiconductors and investments in WFE remain compelling with solid demand across end markets in a multiple technology nodes. We’re encouraged by the strength of the leading indicators of our business and our customers multi-year plans for continued investment.
KLA is executing well and we have continued confidence that we're on track to both exceed our 2023 financial targets and achieve them sooner than anticipated on the strength of higher industry demand. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform and guides our strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence and differentiation across an increasingly diverse product and service offering. They also underpin our sustain technology leadership, deep competitive moat, strong track record of free cash flow generation and capital returns to shareholders.
With that, I’ll now turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A. Kevin?
Kevin Kessel
Thanks, Bren. Priscilla, we're ready to queue for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We’ll now take our first question from Krish Sankar with Cowen & Company. Your line is open.
Krish Sankar
Yes, hi. Thanks for taking my question and congratulate on a really strong results. Rick or Bren, the first question I had was you're guiding to WFE obviously update since three months ago, similarly the mid-20 range. I'm kind of curious, if I look at some of your peers, they're talking about 30% range, but either way from your vantage point, how do you think KLA has any process controlled revenues are going to do relative to your mid-20’s WFE growth on a calendar of 2021 basis, and then I have a follow-up.
Bren Higgins
Yes, Krish. Thanks for the comments. Hey, I'll start here, but you have to remember that everybody uses a different baseline. So that's why I put the baseline in there. So I said that against the baseline of 2020 of $61 billion, we saw a – we see growth from there in the low-to-mid 20s percentile as – with bias to the upside. So I think that as we see it, you do the math on that, that puts you in that sort of $75 billion plus range of WFE, and certainly the momentum that we saw over the course of the quarter has increased pretty substantially, really across all segments. So we feel pretty good, not only about the growth of the overall industry, but the positioning of the semi process control segment against that industry growth expectation. So I think that it sets up well for us, we have to execute over the remainder of the year, but I think it sets up well for us in terms of relative performance against the industry.
Krish Sankar
Got it. Super helpful, Bren. And then as a follow-up, and thanks for the color on the market share data from last year. I'm just looking more – looking ahead, can you talk a little bit for the market share dynamics, obviously a large U.S. company has spoken about gaining traction in process control, introduced a new optical inspection tool with the EB combo along with AI. So I'm kind of curious, are you seeing that impact, especially in foundry and logic? Or how do you kind of counteract that especially given that you are obviously the leader in this space today?
Rick Wallace
Yes. Thanks for the question. I think that there is no question that the demand for process control continues to be strong as Bren said, and we view process control in 2021 is outgrowing the overall market based on those drivers. From a competitive standpoint, we also expect to be able to continue the plan we laid out in 2020 – 2019, which is to increase our overall position of process control as we have in the last couple of years and we think that continues based on the strength of our product portfolio and the engagement we have with our existing customers. There is no question that there is always going to be competition out there, but if you look at the history of the gardener data, as we highlighted over time, KLA has consistently been successful in leveraging our strategies to build on our market position and gain share.
And we don't see anything about the current competitive environment that will change that. We do have some major products to deliver in terms of in areas like reticle inspection, but – and that's happening this year. But we're very pleased with the performance of our optical inspection and we’re also very encouraged by the recent success of our e-beam offerings that we really got back in those segments in the last year or so, so we feel good about our competitive position. And as you might imagine, it kind of shows up in our gross margin in terms of the strength of our business and our competitive position that we're able to continue to have the kind of margin profile that we have, despite the fact that we've added EPC, which overall at a corporate level you know was dilutive to the margins that KLA had prior to that. So I think that should be evidence of our strength.
Krish Sankar
Got it. Really helpful. Thank you.
Operator
And we will move next to John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
John Pitzer
Yes, good afternoon guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Bren, just first on the gross margin in the March quarter, what drove the upside and I guess importantly, as you look at June and full calendar year guide, what are the assumptions that you're making for kind of mix? And to what extent are you above target because of cyclical, because of mix, or should we just start thinking about 62 plus is being kind of a new target?
Bren Higgins
Yes, John, thanks for the question. So when you look back at the March quarter, most of the growth sequentially in the quarter came from the semi process control business. And as Rick just mentioned and that's a richer business for us overall. So that combined with the upside in the quarter in terms of incremental revenue is what drove the margins up to where they were. It's a little bit lower as we look at the June quarter. It’s still in line with the kind of guidance that we've been providing at 62% plus or minus. So we're mostly in line with that as we look at quarter-to-quarter, we do have some sequential growth in EPC, and so that's diluted from that standpoint.
But in general, I think that the margin drivers structurally are all pretty solid. We're seeing nice leverage overall in the business from the activities – the strength of the business and the activities in our factory. So we're seeing good efficiencies there. And then over the course of the year, I think just given the directionally where it's moving, as I mentioned last quarter, I thought it was 61.5% to 62% for the year, certainly the stronger outlook in terms of top line, but also just the drivers underneath in terms of what we're expecting from certain products. I think we're in line with that sort of 62% to 62.5% that I talked about on prepared remarks. And given the strength in the business overall probably more biased to the upper end of that range.
So I think that there is sustainable traction in these areas, particularly around certain products. We talked about the inflection and growth and optical inspection. So anytime you see products like that inflecting, that's going to drive to a richer mix overall for the overall business.
John Pitzer
That's helpful. And then Rick as my follow-up going back to kind of the market share question, which I think is one of the key investor concerns out there. I think the concern that some investors have is that as we hit this inflection from optical to more exotic like – sources like e-beam an x-ray, there is sort of a view that the incumbency advantage kind of goes away. And perhaps we're all kind of estimating that inflection to happen more quickly than it will. But can you help me better understand the 4x market share advantage that you have in the optical world? How does that position you as we start moving to these new technologies?
Rick Wallace
Yes, thanks, John. I think the – I'm not certain of this, but I think the fastest growing product in metrology and inspection, pretty certain was our GEN5 over the last couple of years. And the strength of that is driven by its ability to satisfy the needs that we have for inspection measurement with EUV, specifically around print down and also the advanced nodes. There is nothing that we're seeing that indicates the percent of inspection and metrology budget is dramatically increasing toward e-beam. In fact, if anything, it's always been the challenge to drive the optical at a higher rate because the price performance is so much higher. I'd also say that the people that are closest to having a multi beam – e-beam solution are KLA, we're the ones that have it, that we're developing and introducing in the radical space which is I think – where it's needed the most.
So we don't really see any inflection, we don't see a change, the market share dynamic. And if anything, the challenge that Bren and the operations team have is satisfying the increased demand around the optical portfolio that we have specifically GEN5, but also GEN4, which has it slowed down. So I don't buy the thesis that this is the transition, it hasn't been for years, and the reason is because optical keeps getting better and it's really difficult to make at e-beam tool that's fast enough to satisfy most of the inspection requirements. In terms of pointing e-beam – pointing optical with e-beam, that's not a new idea, that's been around quite a while, and at KLA, we introduced that concept when we introduced our e-beam inspection tool and talked about it at our Analyst Day, that just allows those tools to be functional and to continue to provide value. So I don't think that transition is happening.
Bren Higgins
John, I’d just add – I'm sorry, just one other thing – I think just in terms of overall growth rates, right, so we talked about the accelerated growth relative to the market in 2020 and I would expect this business to grow faster than market again in 2021. So I think the good thing about the complementary nature of our e-beam solutions with our optical is driving higher relevancy in use case application across the optical inspection, which is the large market, right, that's the market, that's $2 billion plus in terms of opportunities. So to give you some perspective on the strategy overall, but there is an inflection here, that's validating, I think the relevancy of optical i