KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC) Q4 2021 Earnings Conference Call July 29, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Kevin Kessel - Vice President of Investor Relations
Rick Wallace - Chief Executive Officer
Bren Higgins - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
CJ Muse - Evercore
Krish Sankar - Cowen & Company
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley
Joe Quatrochi - Wells Fargo
Patrick Ho - Stifel
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Sidney Ho - Deutsche Bank
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Britney, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation June Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. All participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Kevin Kessel
Thank you. And welcome to KLA's fiscal Q4 2021 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of the June quarter and the outlook for the September quarter. With me on today's call is Rick Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer; and Bren Higgins, our Chief Financial Officer. During this call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended June 30, 2021.
Released this afternoon after market close, you can find the press release, shareholder letter, slide deck, and infographic on the KLA IR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise specified, and whenever we make references to a year, we are referring to calendar years. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in the earnings materials posted on our website. Our IR website also contains future investor events, as well as presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factor disclosure in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today, are subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Let me now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace. Rick?
Rick Wallace
Hello, and thank you for joining us today. The June 2021 quarter showed continued momentum and strength for KLA. We delivered on our top and bottom-line goals and progressed against our long-term strategic objectives. Specifically, quarterly revenue grew 7% sequentially and 32% year-over-year to $1.95 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $4.43, representing 15% sequential growth and 63% growth compared to the prior year. These results demonstrate strong growth momentum in our core markets and the operating leverage in the KLA model. We continue to see increased customer demand across each of our major product groups. This demand is related to ongoing secular demand trends, driving semiconductor industry growth across a broad range of markets and applications. Our customers are increasing their strategic CapEx investments to address these growth markets and investing in their leading-edge R&D efforts.
Against the strong demand backdrop, we are navigating evolving customer needs and persistent supply chain challenges. Still, KLA continues to outperform expectations by operating the purpose and precision, and focusing on creating value for our customers, partners, and shareholders. This strong execution is led by our talented global teams, continuing to go above and beyond, constantly rising to the challenge and opportunities of the marketplace.
I will quickly summarize our view of the industry demand environment. We're in a great position relative to growth drivers that are creating momentum for the industry and our business. As a result, our outlook for the wafer fab equipment industry continues to move higher. We have increased our growth estimate from low to mid-20s stated last quarter to the low to mid-30s on a percentage basis. This is from a base of approximately $61 billion in calendar 2020. With strong secular semiconductor demand trends continuing, we expect positive industry dynamics to sustain into calendar 2022.
As our business benefits from this increased demand and our customers are also investing in leading-edge development, fab optimization, and regional expansion, KLA offers a leading portfolio of products to solve our customer's challenges. We continue to invest in high levels of R&D to ensure we are constantly improving and remaining indispensable to our customers. Specifically, we are prioritizing investment in artificial intelligence and machine learning. KLA's unique capabilities and leveraging these technologies in our product and service offerings help drive adoption, differentiates KLA against the competition. KLA benefits from long-standing market leadership and high levels of investment in advanced laser, sensor, optics, and data analytics technologies that leverage our AI and ML capabilities to identify critical defects in the production process and deliver ever-increasing precision in metrology applications. This investment helps our product and service offerings to deliver best-in-class performance, lower process variability, higher yields, improve time to market, and reduce cost of ownership for our customers.
Our growing R&D investment is happening as process control intensity is increasing, KLA's market leadership in the process control market remains greater than 4 times the nearest competitor, as reported by Gartner Research in April of 2021. KLA's sustained performance of process control is augmented by a broader position when -- within the electronics ecosystem through our Electronics Packaging and Components or EPC businesses, and the contributions of our large and growing services business. For new and long-time KLA investors, it's essential to point out the KLA's market leadership is a result of consistent and focused execution of our company's differentiated strategy. With this favorable backdrop and our strong execution, we're on track to achieve our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations.
Let's now move along to the top highlights for our most recent quarter. First, KLA continues to execute well and outperform expectations. In foundry and logic, we see simultaneous investments across multiple nodes and our customers continue to increase demand forecast. We remain encouraged by the breadth and consistency of investment across our customer base.
In memory, demand is strong and spread across a broader set of customers. During the quarter, we announced four new products targeting the automotive semiconductor market, including patterned and unpartnered wafer inspection and in-line test solutions. KLA's automotive solution is aimed to help customers identify and mitigate potential reliability defects in the development and manufacturing of automotive semiconductors early in the manufacturing process, improving device reliability and driving significant value for our customers.
Second, KLA's strong market leadership in optical pattern wafer inspection has helped to drive strong relative growth for our semiconductor process control segment in 2021. In fact, optical pattern wafer inspection is forecasted to be among the fastest-growing segments of WFE in 2021, for product segments over $1 billion of revenue and is poised to outpace the overall industry growth by a factor of 2 times this year. This follows similar growth and outperformance in 2020.
Third, KLA's flagship reticle inspection business is on pace for a record year in 2021, growing faster than the market and growing our leadership position. As proof of that, we estimate that nearly all the reticles today at 5-nanometer are inspected by KLA systems. Our next-generation EBM-based 8xx [ph] mask inspection platform shipped last quarter and has begun customer qualification for applications at 3-nanometer and below.
Fourth, our services revenue was $444 million in the June quarter or 23% of total sales, 75% of services revenue in our semiconductor process control segment and more than 90% of services revenue in our printed circuit board business is from recurring subscription-based contracts. We believe these are among the highest subscription service rates in the industry.
Services business is on track for another year of strong double-digit growth, well above our long-term growth model target. The growth is driven by our expanding installed base, higher utilization rates, and increasing expansion of service opportunities in the trailing edge and the EPC group. Our semiconductor process control service business revenue continues to grow faster than the rate of the growth of the installed base, approximately 2.8 times faster from 2016 through 2020. KLA service business has the advantage of always working in close collaboration with our customers and partners, driving innovation and new initiatives for growth.
Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our shareholders, today, we announce that KLA's Board of Directors approved a 17% increase in the company's quarterly dividend level from $0.90 to $1.05 per share. This is the 12th consecutive annual increase in our dividend level, which has grown at a compounded annual rate of 16% since inception in 2006. In addition, we announced a new $2 billion share repurchase authorization, targeted for execution over the next 12 to 18 months. We believe KLA's track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders.
Before moving into the financial highlights, let's briefly summarize a few key points. KLA's June quarter results demonstrate the critical nature of KLA's products and services in enabling the digital transformation of our lives, the resiliency of the KLA operating model and our commitment to productive capital allocation. KLA is exceptionally well-positioned with a comprehensive portfolio of products to meet demanding customer requirements that balance sensitivity and throughput. The semiconductor and electronics landscape are constantly changing, and we're seeing broadening customer interest driven by more technology innovation than ever before at the leading edge.
KLA also delivers enduring value through our commitment to corporate stewardship. We look forward to sharing an update on our ESG vision in our global impact report, which will be released in the coming weeks.
And with that, I'll pass the call over to Bren.
Bren Higgins
Thank you, Rick. KLA's June quarter '21 results highlight the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategies. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs in a robust demand environment while expanding market leadership, growing operating profits, generating strong free cash flow, and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation.
Total revenue in the June quarter was $1.93 billion towards the top end of the guided range. Non-GAAP gross margin was 62%, at the midpoint of the guided range for the quarter of 61% to 63%. Non-GAAP EPS was $4.43, above the guided range of $3.47 to $4.35. GAAP EPS was $4.10. Non-GAAP total operating expenses were $419 million, about $7 million higher than expected primarily due to engineering materials timing and adjustments to variable compensation programs. Non-GAAP operating expenses included $241 million of R&D expense and $178 million of SG&A.
At KLA, technical application support for our customers is included in SG&A was $44 million in the quarter. The combination of R&D expense and technical applications represents about 70% of total operating expenses. KLA innovation is fundamental to our go-to-market strategy focused on differentiated solutions. R&D is at the heart of KLA remains a key element in driving our portfolio strategy and product differentiation. This in turn help sustain our technology and market leadership.
Non-GAAP operating income was very strong at 40%. Given higher revenue expectations for the second half of '21, product development requirements, ongoing regionalization of additional customer engagement resources, and increased investment in our global infrastructure due to overall business volume, we expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $430 million in the September quarter. Going forward, we will continue to size the company based on our target operating model which delivers 40% to 50% incremental operating margin leverage on revenue growth over a multi-quarter horizon.
Other income and expense in the June quarter net was $11 million, reflecting the gain on an investment in a strategic supplier that recently completed its initial public offering. This gain represented $0.15 of earnings per share at the company's tax planning rate of 13.5%. You should continue to model other income and expense net at approximately $43 million per quarter. The quarterly adjusted effective tax rate was 10.4%, reflecting the benefit of favorable audit adjustments recognized in the period. Non-GAAP net income was $684 million, GAAP net income was $633 million, cash flow from operations was $466 million, and free cash flow was $410 million. The company had approximately 154 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding at quarter-end.
Revenue for the semiconductor process control segment, including its associated service business was $1.581 billion, a sequential quarterly increase of 5% and also up 37% compared to June of last year. The approximate semiconductor process control customer segment mix was in line with our forecast from April as foundry logic was 68% and memory was 32%.
In memory, the business was split roughly 34% NAND and 66% DRAM. Revenue for our Electronics, Packaging, and Components Group hit a record in the quarter driven by continued strength in 5G mobile and infrastructure, as well as rising demand in automotive. More specifically, the specialty semiconductor process segment generated revenue of $98 million, up 7% sequentially and down 2% over the prior year. Demand in this segment was mostly driven by growth in the automotive power semiconductor applications, where we have a leading position in edge and deposition products.
Specialty semiconductor process's performance was also highlighted by the second straight quarter of record bookings. PCB, display and component inspection revenue was $247 million, up 20% sequentially and up 22% year-over-year with the data center driving strength in advanced PCB and packaging inspection.
KLA ended the quarter with $2.5 billion in total cash, total debt of almost $3.5 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by strong investment-grade ratings from all three agencies. We were also pleased to see Moody's upgrade our debt rating in early June to A2 from Baa1, further underscoring the strength of our balance sheet and sustainability of our business and financial performance. We have tremendous confidence in our business over the long run and are committed to a long-term strategy of cash returns to shareholders, executing the balanced approach split between dividends and share repurchases, targeting long-term returns that at least 70% of free cash flow generated. Our announcement today of our 12th consecutive annual increase in the dividend and additional share repurchase authorization are representative of our explicit approach and strong track record of predictable and productive capital deployment.
Over the last 12 months, KLA returned $1.5 billion to shareholders, including $559 million in dividends paid and $939 million in share repurchases. While circumstances can change, our current expectation remains that our capital returns for calendar '21 will exceed 85% of expected free cash flow. KLA has a history of consistent free cash flow generation, high free cash flow conversion, and strong free cash flow margins across all phases of the business cycle and economic conditions. During the quarter, we generated $410 million of free cash flow and repurchased $300 million of common stock, while also paying $139 million in dividends.
Our overall semiconductor demand and WFE outlook continues to increase from our views earlier in the year. At the start of this year, we characterized the expected growth of the WFE market to be in the low teens plus or minus a few percentage points. In April, we revised that view to the low to mid-20s on a percentage basis with a bias to the upside. Today, we see further improvement and expect the WFE market to grow in the low to mid-30s from approximately $61 billion in calendar 2020 to approximately $81 billion at the midpoint in calendar '21. This reflects the broad-based strengthening of demand across all customer segments.
KLA is in position to deliver strong relative growth this year, driven by our market leadership and strong momentum in the marketplace across multiple product platforms, in both the semiconductor process control and EPC groups. Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by the sustainability of our current demand profile. As a result, we continue to expect total company revenue to improve sequentially quarter-to-quarter throughout the remainder of the calendar year. We also expect the second half of calendar '21 to grow in the mid-teens on a percentage basis versus the first half, as more of our manufacturing capacity comes online to support the strong customer demand. Furthermore, our system shipment expectations point to meaningful growth in semiconductor process control equipment systems in the second half of calendar '21. This strong backdrop supports our current expectations of high-30s to low-40s year-over-year percentage growth for the semiconductor process control systems business in calendar '21. As a result, we continue to believe that this business is positioned to outperform in '21 relative to the overall WFE market.
Our September quarter guidance is as follows. Total revenue is expected to be in a range $2.02 billion, plus or minus $100 million. Foundry logic is forecasted to be approximately 59%, and memory is expected to be approximately 41% of semiconductor process control systems revenue to semiconductor customers.
Within memory, DRAM is expected to be about 60% of the segment mix. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 61.5% to 63.5%. At the midpoint, this is 50 basis points above the June quarter level due principally to product mix. While in any given quarter, the mix of our business across products and business segments will affect our gross margin results, the structural trends both in terms of product cost, manufacturing efficiency, and product positioning remain compelling and are sustainable tailwinds going forward.
Other model assumptions for September include non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $430 million, other income and expense of approximately $43 million, and an effective adjusted tax rate of approximately 13.5%. Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $3.76 to $4.64 and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $4.01 the $4.89. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 153.5 million shares.
In closing, the industry dynamics driving semiconductors and investments in WFE remain compelling, with broad-based customer demand and simultaneous investments across multiple technology nodes. We are encouraged by the leading indicators for our business, including our backlog and sales funnel visibility over the next couple of quarters. Our customer's multiyear investment plans also point to the stability of demand in the future.
KLA continues to execute well and is on track to exceed our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform and guides our important strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence, and differentiation across an increasingly diverse product and service offering. They also underpin our sustained technology leadership, deep competitive moat, strong financial performance, and long-standing track record of free cash flow generation and capital return to shareholders.
And with, that I'll now turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A.
Kevin Kessel
Thanks, Bren. Britney, can you please queue up for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Harlan Sur with JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Harlan Sur
Hi, good afternoon and great job on the quarterly execution and strong results. EUV adoption continues strong. And if I look at the outlook for EUV Litho systems expected to grow like mid-30% this year. Do you have a positive exposure here via your wafer inspection systems, but also the strong leadership in EUV mask inspection and printed. I know this doesn't represent your entire process control business, but it's sort of a good proxy. But you guys are guiding your optical inspection, your mask inspection, and your overall process control business to go well above that range. So, what are the two or three dynamics that are driving the strength above EUV adoption? And more importantly, with the visibility that you guys have, how are you feeling about the sustainability of the overall second-half momentum into the first half of next calendar year?
Rick Wallace
Hey Harlan, it's Rick. Thanks for the question. You're right. I think we are seeing a lot of strength in the process control portfolio driven. As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we look at optical wafer inspection and really seeing a lot of uptake on that. What's interesting about that is, it's a pretty good mix between Gen 4 and Gen 5. So, both of the -- Gen 5 is more exposed, I would say to the EUV dynamic, but we're seeing more proliferation of Gen 4 also as people continue to add advanced capability. And we expected that with the rising complexity really across the board, and it's not just in the EUV areas of memory, logic, foundry, but also we're seeing it in memory; that's one area. We mentioned also reticles having a really strong year as the number of advanced designs continue. So, we're seeing both related to EUV, but also just increased process control intensity really across the entire portfolio. That's why we feel so strongly about the remainder of the year. And as Bren indicated, we're looking into 2022 for that strength to continue. Bren, you want to provide more color?
Bren Higgins
Yes. So, as Rick said, I think as we continue through the second half of this year, both those businesses are growing faster than market as we said in the prepared remarks. In fact, I would think that the optical inspection business is one of the fastest-growing markets in all of WFE, if not the fastest. So, there's a lot of inflections around EUV, but also other process dynamics that are driving that. But the introduction of EUV driving shrinks in the business or shrinks in design rules is creating an opportunity for both platforms and also leveraging optical inspection for validating reticle quality. Also 5-nanometer in the reticle part of the business, you also have increasing reticle complexity. And our offering in that market after a number of years where reticle complexity wasn't changed all that much in the double patterning environment. As we move to EUV, reticle complexity is changing dramatically. And our offering is a more technical offering and we're getting strong customer interest in that product. So, I think there's sustainable tailwinds here through the rest of this year and as we move into '22.
Harlan Sur
I appreciate that. And then on the gross margin front, if you could just help us understand the upticking in our gross margins into the September quarter. It looks like component costs are rising, I'm assuming the team also has to pay expedite fees for some parts and your end market mix is more weighted towards memory, which I would think would have some slight negative bias on gross margins. So, it's great to see the team driving the margin profile higher, but just help us understand some of the drivers of that?
Rick Wallace
Customer mix doesn't impact our margin profile, our products across all segments have the same margin profile. So, it really is a mix dynamic that is driving the quarter-to-quarter, 50 basis point increase we have. Most of the growth quarter-to-quarter is coming from semi-process control systems and those carry higher margins than obviously our service business or EPC business. So, that's been the bigger driver. We have supply chain challenges like everybody else and we're constantly trying to manage our way through those. Freight costs are higher, those are embedded. And maybe over time as some of those pressures alleviate, we'll get a little bit of benefit from that into the future. But we certainly have that in our numbers and expecting it to remain at that level over the next couple of quarters.
On the component side, there is pressure on components, there is pressure on raw materials for frames and steel specifically, for the frames of our tools. So, we're dealing with that. Labor pressures are different around the world, we have factories in different locations but we're also dealing with that as well. I would expect as we move forward, we'll see some pressure. So, far it's been offset by the strength of the volume. So, we worked with our suppliers and the volume upside has been favorable. But I do expect we'll see some pressure on components. The way we price products tends to be value-centric. We have a value pricing model, not a cost-based model. But we're certainly going to have to deal with that as it comes through.
With these revenue levels into the future, I would think we're probably looking at 10 to 20 basis points type of impact over time from some of the inflationary pressures on our COGS. But that's contemplated in the guidance we provided in terms of our margin expectations moving forward.
Harlan Sur
Great insights. Thank you.
Operator
And we will take our next question from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
John Pitzer
Yes. Thanks, Rick, Bren. Congratulation on the strong quarter. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Rick, I wanted to go back to your prepared comments about the investments that you're making in AI and ML. I mean clearly, some of your peers have talked about big investments in that area. I'd be curious if you can help us understand how you think you might differ from theirs? How -- maybe your incompetency [ph] gives you an upper hand here. And as you think about this, is this a way to maintain already outstanding share? Or do you think there is actually incremental revenue and SAM capability as you bring this out? And Bren, maybe on the gross margin; what could be the influence to gross margin? I'm assuming this is mainly software IP, which -- would it seem to be gross margin accretive?
Rick Wallace
John, thanks for the question. We've been working on what has been -- what is now called AI and ML for years now. And of course, because we handle so much data in our systems, especially in optical wafer system but also in the reticle system, that we've been having to manage that data and look for a signal in that data for a long time. What ML enables and machine learning enables along with AI is, just extracting more information out of that data. So, as we continue to have more capability to manage it, our work on AI has proliferated across most of our products now in some form or another but we continue to add upgrades. So, I think to answer your question, one way to think about it is we can squeeze more capability out of existing generations by leveraging the algorithms in the AI work. And in the past, where we may have needed to shift [ph] wavelengths for example to get more capability, we can do that with algorithm. So, one of the questions that had been brought up in the past was, for example, the limitations of optical wafer inspection and why EBM was going to maybe take a large prior of the share, that was the thesis a few years ago. But it was through AI and through ML and our advanced optics capability, that we've actually created additional node capability out of the optical systems. So, I think that's another way that we've expanded and lengthened the lifetime of the products, part of why Gen 4 has a longer life now is, we're squeezing more capability out of that, leveraging it.
To answer your other question, it is expanding into our other products, those are the first really in the work we do at reticle. But it's also driving some opportunities for us in other segments as we expand the leverage of that capability into both metrology but also some of our traditionally lower-end wafer inspection systems that are applying and trailing edge capability [ph]. So, it's really kind of across the board. And you're right, it's very -- if you can amortize the engineering the way we do, it's pretty accretive to the overall business volume, because you're -- we do make a large investment. We're by far -- we have the most investment going on, no question among our peers because we're doing it across such a broad portfolio. But we're getting leverage as we have multiple products that are leveraging it. So, Bren can speak to how that drives the P&L.
Bren Higgins
Yes, John. And I think it's much more of an operating margin statement or a reduction in R&D intensity is another way to about it. Platform extendability is one of the biggest decisions we make in our product lifecycle processes. We're making choices and we can extend platforms. It means that over time we get a higher return on investment on those engineering dollars. So we don't have to go develop the next one, which is what drives significant cost of the model as you're developing and bringing a new product to market. So, by extending it, we see the leverage in our operating margins. Now, in terms of gross margin, software content or software offerings are increasing across the whole company not just within semi-process control, where we have businesses. Now that are starting to get to meaningful revenue levels, but we're selling software directly and we have that there, and we also have it in the EPC business where we're providing simulation capabilities, data analytics, other computational methods, design-based capabilities to help point our inspectors and get more value out of the KLA offerings.
So, there is a few dynamics that are there that I think are good for us in terms of solving some of these problems as technology roadmaps get more and more complicated, but then also driving operating margin leverage over time.