KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC)  Q1 2022 Results Conference Call  October 28, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Kevin Kessel – Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics
Rick Wallace – Chief Executive Officer 
Bren Higgins – Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
CJ Muse – Evercore
Vivek Arya – Bank of America
Krish Sankar – Cowen & Company
Joe Moore – Morgan Stanley
Joe Quatrochi – Wells Fargo
Timothy Arcuri – UBS
Patrick Ho – Stifel
Mehdi Hosseini – SIG
Harlan Sur – JP Morgan
Operator
Please stand by, your program is about to begin. [Operator Instructions]. Good afternoon. My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation September Quarter 2021 earnings conference call and webcast. All participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. 
And after the speakers remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] pound key. Please limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up. Lastly, if you should need operator assistance, please press star zero. Thank you and I will now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics. Please go ahead.
Kevin Kessel
Thank you. And welcome to KLA's Fiscal Q1 2022 Quarterly Earnings Call to discuss the results of the September quarter and the outlook for the December quarter. With me on today's call is Rick Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer and Bren Higgins, our Chief Financial Officer. During this call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended September 30th, 2021, released this afternoon after market close. 
You can find the press release, shareholder letter, flight deck, and info graphic on the KLAIR section of our website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. And whenever we make references to a year, we're referring to calendar years. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in the earnings materials posted on our website. 
Our IR website also contains future investor events, as well as presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the respective disclosure in our SEC filings. 
Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today, are also subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward looking statements. Let me now turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace. Rick?
Rick Wallace
Hello and thank you for joining us today. KLA September 2021 quarter continued our track record of consistent execution and commitment to outperformance. The Company's focus on delivering on top and bottom-line goals remained at the forefront of how we run our business. During the quarter, revenue grew 8% sequentially and 35% year-over-year to $2.8 billion. 
Non-GAAP earnings per share was $4.64, representing 5% sequential growth and up 53% compared to the prior year. These results demonstrate growth momentum in our core markets and the operating leverage in the KLA financial model. Customer demand across KLA's major product groups continues as secular trends drive growth across a broad range of markets and applications in the industry. 
This growth is putting pressure on the semiconductor industry supply across multiple technology nodes. In parallel, leading-edge customers are increasing their strategic CAPEX investments to improve their ability to address market demanding new semiconductor capabilities. Against this intense demand backdrop, we are navigating evolving customer needs and supply chain challenges. 
Still, KLA continues to outperform expectations by operating with purpose and precision and keeping our focus on creating value for our customers, partners, and shareholders. Now, turning to the industry demand environment, KLA remains in an excellent position when we look at the industry demand landscape. Strong secular growth drivers are creating important tailwinds that translate into momentum for our business. 
As a result, we are increasing our outlook for the wafer fab equipment or WFE industry. Last quarter, we estimated WFE growth would be in the mid-30s percent range. We now estimate the WFE will grow to approximately 40% in 2021. With sustained demand trends, we expect positive industry dynamics to continue into calendar 2022 and fuel another year of growth. 
Along with increased demand due to digitization across multiple categories, KLA’s business is benefiting from customers increasing their focus on investment in leading-edge development, optimization of popularization ports. Established production notes, and regionalization for future fab construction. To address this growth, we continue to invest high levels of R&D to ensure we're constantly improving and remaining indispensable to our customers. 
For example, we are prioritizing investment in R&D for software that enhances the value customers extract from KLA systems. Data analytics, advanced simulation, and machine learning technologies are driving adoption of process control. KLA’s data analytics perform -- platforms connect, centralize and analyze the data produced by our systems in the field. 
This creates a network effect that enhances performance across the product portfolio and for customers. KLA's breadth of products is uniquely positioned to speed time to results for our customers. We're making investments in these critical technologies as process control intensity increases. KLA's market leadership in the process control markets remain an impressive level and an impressive level of 4 times the nearest competitor. 
Thanks to focus on execution and the industry demand backdrop. We remain on track to achieve our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. Let's now move along to the top highlights of the quarter. First, we continue to benefit from strength across all major end markets with overall Company revenue expected to be up to mid-30s on a percentage basis year-over-year, based on the midpoint of our guidance for the December quarter. 
While we're not immune to the unprecedented supply chain challenges affecting the electronics industry, we are navigating them as well as can be expected. In foundry logic, a simultaneous investment across multiple nodes and rising capital intensity continues to be a tailwind. In memory, demand remains broad-based across multiple customers, with growth in 2021 led by DRAM. 
And 2022 setting up to be a relatively strong year for NAND. Second, our optical metrology business continues to stand out. KLA 's metrology revenues is on track to grow meaningfully faster than the WFE market in 2021 after experiencing similar levels of absolute growth in 2020. The optical metrology market is strongly leveraged to EUV and its critical next-generation architectures, including data all around and multi-stack 3D NAND. 
Third, KLA's leadership in the largest and fastest-growing segments of the process control market is fueling strong relative growth in our semiconductor process control segment. Optical pattern wafer inspection is forecasted to be among the fastest-growing segments of WFE in 2021 for product segments over a billion dollars in revenue. 
KLA's cadence of innovation and new product introduction continues to outpace the competition. Just last month, we introduced our new Voyager 1035 laser scanning pattern wafer inspector. The latest in an extensive portfolio of inline defect inspection tools for critical process monitoring application in advance chip manufacturing. 
Coupled with the Gen 4 and Gen 5 broadband plasma portfolio, KLA's laser scanning systems have comprised most comprehensive optical pattern wafer inspection portfolio in the marketplace today. Fourth, our services revenue was 454 million in the September quarter, up 15% year-over-year. 
For the quarter, it was 22% of revenue, more than 75% of service revenue in the semiconductor process control segment, and over 90% of services in the PCB business comes from recurring subscription-like contracts. Services are on track for another year of strong double-digit growth in 2021.
This is driven by our growing installed base, higher utilization rates, and increasing expansion of service opportunities in the trailing edge. Finally, the September quarter was exceptional from a free cash flow perspective. We generated record quarterly free cash flow of $795 million, which helped drive last 12 months free cash flow up 42% year-over-year to $2.29 billion. 
We also have remained focused on returning capital to shareholders. They are a dividend and stock repurchase program. Both of which are up materially year-over-year, including $563 million in share repurchases and dividends in the quarter. In addition to executing against our strategic objectives and disciplined capital management, KLA deliveries enduring value through corporate stewardship. 
KLA's values are reflected in efforts to reduce our environmental footprint, provide for a safe and healthy workplace for employees, advanced inclusion and diversity, and make positive contributions to the communities where we live and work. We published our latest global impact report in August 2021 that highlights how KLA delivers lasting values with corporate citizenship. 
Our journey on this path began when we opened our doors in 1976. We are now expanding our efforts to be more holistic across environmental, social, and governance topics most relevant to our business. We've also broadened our tracking and reporting to be inclusive of our full global footprint and acquire companies.
We continue to build our long-term [Indiscernible] strategy to focus on reducing climate impact, increasing disclosure, and deepening the positive impact we delivered through our business and community engagement. With that, I will pass the call over to Bren to cover our financial highlights, outlook, and guidance.
Bren Higgins
Thank you Rick. KLA’s quarterly results highlight the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategies. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs in a robust demand environment while expanding market leadership, growing operating profit, generating strong free cash flow, and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation. 
Total quarterly revenue was 2.08 billion, non-GAAP gross margin was 62.9% as the various components performed, mostly as expected, and with upside coming from the higher-than-expected semiconductor process control systems revenue, which enhanced the product mix for the quarter. 
Non-GAAP diluted EPS was $4.64. Our performance reflected the mark-to-market of an equity position in a strategic supplier that negatively impacted non-GAAP earnings per share by $0.06. Without this adjustment, which is reflected in other income and expense on the income statement, non-GAAP earnings would've been $4.70. 
GAAP diluted EPS was $6.96 due primarily to a one-time tax benefit of 395 million resulting from changes made to our international structure to better align ownership of certain intellectual property rights with how our business operates. Non-GAAP operating expenses were 432 million and included 252 million of R&D expense and 180 million of SG&A. 
Technical applications is a competitive advantage for KLA and drives demand for our products by helping our customers develop solutions that address their complex process challenges. A technical application is included in SG&A almost 47 million in the quarter. The combination of R&D and technical applications represented approximately 70% of total operating expenses. 
Given the rapid growth of the business over the last couple of years, and our revenue expectations for the business going forward, we expect the Company's operating expenses to continue to grow as we invest in global infrastructure systems to scale the KLA operating model, new product development programs, and volume dependent resources to support our business expansion. 
Furthermore, we, as most companies, are seeing, a strong labor market driving cost pressure across our global workforce. As a result, we expect operating expenses to grow sequentially to approximately 470 million in the December quarter, and we forecast sequential growth in operating expenses to continue through calendar 2022. 
While operating expenses are trending higher, going forward, we will make the necessary investments to scale our business while we continue to size the Company based on our target operating model, which delivers 40% to 50% incremental operating margin leverage on revenue growth from our normalized time horizon. 
Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue was strong at 42.2% in September quarter. Other income and expense net was 52 million compared with guidance of 43 million, with the variance from guidance reflecting the impact of the mark-to-market of the investment discussed earlier. For December, we forecast other income and expense net at approximately 44 million. The quarterly effective tax rate was 13.9%, just above our guided tax rate of 13.5%.
Non-GAAP net income 712 million, GAAP net income was 1.07 billion in cash flow from operations was 864 million and free cash flow was a record 795 million, resulting in a free cash flow conversion of 112%. Turning to our reportable segment and end markets, revenue for the semiconductor process control segment, including its associated service business, was 1.78 billion up 40% year-over-year and up 13% sequentially. 
The approximate semiconductor process control system customer segment mix was tilted slightly more towards foundry logic than we forecasted, at 61% above our 59% estimate. Memory was 39% and within memory, the business was split roughly 61% DRAM and 39% NAND. Revenue for our EPC group continues to be driven by strength in 5G mobile and infrastructure, as well as continued demand in automotive. 
More specifically, especially semiconductor process segment, which includes its associated service business, generated record revenue of a 102 million, up 15% over the prior year, and up 4% sequentially. PCB display and component inspection revenue was 203 million up 12% year-over-year, but down 18% sequentially. After a record quarter in the PCB and the component inspection businesses in June. 
For breakout of revenue by major products and regions, please see our shareholder letter or the earnings slides. Moving forward to our Balance Sheet, we ended the quarter with 2.63 billion in cash, bonds outstanding, the 3.45 million, with no maturities until 2024 and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by strong investment great ratings for all three agencies. 
Over the last 12 months, KLA returned 1.73 billion to shareholders, including 581 million of dividends paid and 1.15 billion in share repurchases. While circumstances can change, current expectations are the capital returns for calendar 2021 will exceed 85% of expected free cash flow generated in the calendar year. 
For the quarter, we generated a record 795 million of free cash flow and repurchased 400 million of common stock, while also paying 163 million in dividends. Moving to our outlook and guidance, our overall semiconductor demand and WFE outlook continues to increase from our views earlier in the year. At the start of this year, we characterize the expected growth of the WFE market to be in the low-teens plus or minus a few percentage points. 
In April, we revised that view to the low-to-mid-20's on a percentage basis with the bias to the upside. In July, we revised our WFE outlook upward again to the mid-30s. Today, we see continued strengthening and expected WFE market to grow approximately 40% to the mid $80 billion range of 2021, growing from approximately 61 billion in calendar 2020. This reflects the broad-based strengthening demand across all customer segments. 
KLA is in position to deliver strong relative growth this year, with the semiconductor process control systems business now expected to grow in the mid-40s on a percentage basis over calendar year 2020. This growth profile is driven by our market leadership and strong momentum in the marketplace across multiple product platforms. 
Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by the strength and sustainability of our current demand profile across all customer segments. For the total Company, we expect that the first half of 2022 will grow in the high single digits versus the second half of 2021. It is abundantly clear today that demand is constrained by the industry's ability to supply. 
This pent-up demand should enable another year of solid growth in 2022. While it's too early to put a fine point on our growth expectations for next calendar year, early indications point towards the WFE industry maintaining its growth momentum. Given our bookings momentum and strong backlog, we believe KLA is well-positioned to outperform WFE. 
As in calendar 2021, we're adding capacity strategically across our global manufacturing footprint to drive this outlook and to enable us to support our customer’s process control requirements. Our December quarter guidance is as follows. Total revenue is expected to be in a range of 2.3 to 5 billion plus or minus 100 million. 
Foundry logic is forecasted to be approximately 74% and memory is expected to be approximately 26% of semiconductor process control systems revenue to semiconductor customers. Within memory, DRAM is expected to be about 53% of the segment mix, and NAND is forecasted to be 47%. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 62 to 64%. 
At the midpoint, gross margin is roughly flat sequentially as revenue, volume and product mix improvement is offset by higher expected service and manufacturing costs. Other model assumptions for December include: non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately 470 million, other income and expense, net of approximately 44 million and an effective tax rate of approximately 13.5%. 
Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $4.69 to $5.59, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $4.95 to $5.85. EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 152 million shares. In conclusion, the tailwinds driving semiconductor growth and investments in WFE continue to remain compelling. Broad-based customer demand and simultaneous investments across multiple technology nodes are strong and resilient trends. 
We have confidence in the leading indicators of our business, including our backlog and sales funnel visibility, which is spurring us to invest in expanding our business infrastructure. And the required capabilities to support our outlook. Our customers, multi-year investment plans provide an element of stability in the demand outlook for the future. 
KLA continues to execute exceptionally well and is on track to exceed our 2023 financial targets well ahead of expectations. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform our industry and guides our important strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence, and differentiation across an increasingly diverse product and service offering. 
They are also the foundation of our sustained technology leadership, wide competitive mode, leading financial performance, long-standing track record of strong free cash flow generation, and capital returns to shareholders. With that, I will turn the call back over to Kevin, to begin the Q&A.
Kevin Kessel
Thank you, Bren. Ashley, can you please queue up for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. [Operator Instruction]. [Operator Instruction] We'll take our first question from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
John Pitzer
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question and congratulations on the solid results and outlook. Rick, I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about your optimism around the NAND market, whether it's the December guide specifically where it's moving up as a mix or in your prepared comments, you said that next calendar year setting up for a strong year NAND. To what extent is that just being driven by technology transitions that might be a little bit more insulated from the overall market conditions in the NAND market overall?
Rick Wallace
Yes, thanks. It is -- for us, it is more driven by technology transitions than overall capacity. As you know, mostly that's what drives the early adoption of our leading technologies. And what we're seeing with NAND is NAND is as the design rules or the complexity continues, we're seeing a larger adoption of process control. 
As you know, the design roles aren't as advanced in NAND as they are as DRAM. But they get -- they're getting more challenging and so that's driving a larger amount of inspection requirement, but also quite a bit in metrology as well. So it's really both.
Bren Higgins
Hey John, it's Bren. It is ticking up off of pretty low levels, right? And I think overall, if you look at the growth of the year for the markets, the NAND market, though considerably it was growing but considerably slower than the overall market. 
So there's some optimism there in terms of we are seeing some tick up although the percentage is, as I said, the absolute values not a lot, and I think as we move into the first part of '22, I think we'll see a little bit more investment there.
John Pitzer
That's helpful, then as my follow-up Bren just going back to your commentary around OpEx. It makes sense given the opportunity ahead of you that you guys are making the investments, I'm wondering if you can just put some guardrails on growing sequentially every quarter from that 470 level. Where might the exit trajectory be next year and I guess is there any flexibility around a revenue environment that might become a little bit more volatile on the second half of the year.
Bren Higgins
It's a great question John, and we're in the middle of our strategic planning process right now and assessing not just our top-line expectations, but how to size the Company relative to program demands, but also some of the volume dependencies that we've seen. We're also making too many investments in infrastructure. 
As you've got the world coming back from travel, you've got programs, you've got infrastructure investments, and those are all driving what we're seeing. We're certainly feeling pressure as most companies are, as we said in the prepared remarks around compensation. So that's also a big part of it. I'm not going to guide '22 because we're going through that process. 
But what I would say is that based on how we size the Company, we're going to size -- we do expect growth in the Company and we'll size the Company based on our incremental margin model, which is 40% to 50% incremental operating margin, leverage on revenue growth and so that will be a driver for us. 
Certainly some of this investment is a catch-up, if you will, in terms of the revenue growing so fast over the last couple of years, and it's been hard for us to catch up in terms of just being able to support the business in the way that we'd like. We're also encouraged by the growth opportunities over time. 
I'll call it the through-cycle or normalized long-term growth. I mean, we want to make sure the Company's position right for that. So on a more to say about how to size it, I would say that we're going to be consistent with our long-term model. We've been way ahead of the model over 50% of the last couple of years. I would expect us to be in the target range as we think about '22. Hopefully that helps.
John Pitzer
It does. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from CJ Muse with Evercore. Please go ahead, your line is open.
CJ Muse
Good afternoon. And thank you for taking the question. I guess a similar question on the gross margin side as you think about the investments that you're making now. How should we think about your trajectory for gross margins into calendar '22? And I guess as part of that, would love to know mix-wise, what would enable you to the higher-end or 64% of the December quarter as well? Thank you.
Rick Wallace
Yeah, C.J., one of the challenges -- all the things I mentioned that there is a cox component to it. And I think one of the other challenges we're facing is pressure on cost in the supply chain. As I think about '22, I do see an impact from incremental costs, probably somewhere in the 75 to 100 basis point level. I do think that that's implied in the guidance that we provided. 
I'll have a firmer point on it as I think about '22 in the next call as we start to just lay out a more comprehensive plan around the year. But I do think we're operating in the 63% range and I put a little bit wider range than I normally would today, it may be set plus or minus 75 basis points on that, based on our early expectations for next year. 
Absent those pressures, I think we'd be very consistent with the kind of trajectory we've seen. Certainly the mix is more process control centric, given expectations for next year right now. But I do think we'll continue to operate within our longer-term expectations of trying to drive somewhere between 60% and 65% incremental. 
But certainly these cost pressures are real out there and we're trying to navigate our way through it. But I don't think it'll change much from current levels in terms, but I don't think it's going to go up much either. So I think it's -- we're going to be operating and hover in this area with mix affecting performance in any given quarter.
CJ Muse
That's very helpful. As a follow-up on the revenue guide for first half calendar '22, that implies roughly 50 million higher each quarter. And so curious, is there any seasonal impact we should be thinking about Orbotech lower in the March quarter, and otherwise should we be thinking about really process control being a key driver of that uplift?
Bren Higgins
Yeah, it's a good question. Right now, and then again, things could change, but I don't see any seasonal impact in the first quarter. I think process control will be above. Obviously, the high-single-digit commentaries, I think we'll see process control systems higher than that, in terms of the first-half expectations.
CJ Muse
Thank you.
Bren Higgins
Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Vivek Arya with Bank of America, please go ahead.
Vivek Arya
Thank you for taking my questions. On the first one, either the industry is about to start making this transition to three nanometer. And I was hoping you could contrast what that move means for process control intensity, right? The move from five to three versus the changes all when the industry moved from seven to five. And can this transition from five to three changes the competitive landscape in anyway?
Rick Wallace
Well, I think yes, I think it's a more similar change, I think, as traditional ones because EUV has already been introduced. So what you're seeing is an increase. It's less of a revolutionary one in the sense that EUV has N5 and so you're going to see expansion of the EUV layers as part of 3. So in that way, I think the mix phenomenon will change toward some of the higher-end tools. 
So for example, Gen 4 for us, is significantly outselling Gen 5 in this calendar year because the bulk of the layers that can be done on a Gen 4 system. So as you move to 3, you're going to have more leverage toward a Gen 5. And now, it turns out we'll also be improving the capabilities on Gen 4, but I think you'll see it slightly shift. Remember customers are always looking at the most cost-effective inspection strategy that they can have. 
So you're going to see it there. It will show up in metrology as well because they'll just be more points that will have to be sampled. And that'll drive utilization and the throughput requirements on tools. So process control intensity at the advanced notes does get pushed harder and we're definitely getting that feedback from our leading edge customers. The need for more capability and capacity to support that. 
So I think if anything, you're going to see a shift towards some of the higher ASP capability, at the same time, we're improving it. But in terms of our KLA market share perspective, we think it's actually positive for our market share because most of the time when we have competitive situations, we tend to be in price competition at the lower end of most of the competition. 
And this will push things towards higher-end, which are the tools that we're really well-positioned in. And that will allow us to continue to our march towards higher market share over time. Given back, I'd also say that it in five, you're going to have a lot of a high number of design start. 
So you're going to see customers adding capacity at five, which means it's much harder for them to try and migrate any of that capacity to N3. They're going to be investing in N3, but also adding capacity N5. The technical drivers make that harder already,
Bren Higgins
Based on a lot of the things that Rick just talked about, but also the design start activity will also be a factor in that. So it's -- there's a lot of new capacity that comes into to support that note.
Vivek Arya
Pretty helpful. And then for my follow-up, at the risk of pushing you a little more on the calendar '22 because you were so nice to give us what you're seeing in the 1st half. Usually, the 2nd half of the year -- calendar year tends to be better than the 1st half. So to the extent that you have visibility right today based on bookings and what not, is there any factor that could prevent that from happening next year? Thank you.
Bren Higgins
Guy. You look, I'm not going to guide the 2nd half. It's pretty far out. Yes, we have seen that phenomenon over the last couple of years play out. I would say in part of why we felt comfortable with the first-half guidance is that we do have very high levels of backlog and given the fact that the WFE number this year is clearly a supply number, not a demand number. 
There's certainly evidence of an up visibility through our customers an