KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call August  3, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Kevin Kessel – Vice President-Investor Relations
Rick Wallace – Chief Executive Officer
Bren Higgins – Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Harlan Sur – JPMorgan
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Krish Sankar – Cowen and Company
CJ Muse – Evercore ISI
Patrick Ho – Stifel
Timothy Arcuri – UBS
Vivek Arya – Banc of America Securities
Joe Quatrochi – Wells Fargo
Joe Moore – Morgan Stanley
Atif Malik – Citi
Blayne Curtis – Barclays
Quinn Bolton – Needham and Co
Sidney Ho – Deutsche Bank
Weston Twigg – KeyBanc Capital Markets
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the KLA Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
Kevin Kessel
Thank you, and welcome to KLA’s fiscal Q4 2020 quarterly earnings call to discuss the results of our June quarter and the outlook for the September quarter. Joining me today is Rick Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer and Bren Higgins, our Chief Financial Officer.
During today’s call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended June 30, 2020 that we released today after the market close in the form of a press release, Shareholder Letter and slide deck. All these documents can be found on the IR section of our website.
Today’s discussion of our financial results and outlook is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in today’s earnings materials posted on the KLA IR website. Our IR website also contains a calendar of future virtual investor events as well as presentations, corporate governance information, including our quiet period policy and links to KLA’s SEC filings, including the most recent annual report and quarterly reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factor disclosed in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today are also subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
As we mentioned last quarter, we are changing the format of these calls to provide deeper insights into KLA and our business performance and also a lot more time for Q&A. beginning of this quarter, we will provide some highlights from our full prepared remarks, which can be found in the shareholders’ letter before beginning our Q&A session. I encourage you all to read the letter. It can be accessed on our KLA IR website.
And with that, I’d like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace.
Rick Wallace
Thanks, Kevin and thank you all for joining us today. On behalf of all of us at KLA, we hope you and your families are safe and in good health, and we thank you for your continued interest and support of our company. In many ways, our performance in the June quarter, once again, highlights how the KLA operating model and long-term strategic objectives provide a dependable framework to guide our execution and help us consistently deliver on our commitments. Thanks to the dedication, engagement and perseverance of our global workforce in the face of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
KLA delivered strong results in the June 2020 quarter. Revenue and non-GAAP EPS each finished above the midpoint of our guidance ranges, demonstrating strong consistent demand from our customers, exceptional execution by our teams and the enduring strength and resiliency of the KLA operating model under today’s extraordinary circumstances.

For my opening remarks today, I plan to touch on some of the key messages from our letter to shareholders. I’ll start with an update on our priorities related to COVID-19, touch on the industry demand environment, and then cover five highlights from the quarter before passing it to Bren, who will review our financial highlights and our outlook.
In terms of COVID-19, we continue to take proactive measures to ensure the health and safety of our employees, their families, and our partners. Our action to date have been successful and effective as reflected in our strong financial results in the first half of calendar 2020, but more importantly, in our safety record to this point in this pandemic. It’s also important is that our worldwide teams have never lost sight of what our customers need. Our teams have been exceptionally resourceful and committed to executing for our customers most pressing needs and challenges. Customer feedback has been outstanding. KLA is consistently delivering on our customer commitments. Investment in the long-term remains an important priority for us during this time. We’re confident that our R&D investments will help ensure a bright future.
Now, turning to the industry demand environment. Customer demand is strong. We ended the quarter with our second highest level of quarterly backlog ever. In the June quarter, we saw broad diversified strength across each of our segments. Semiconductor process control was above plan, multiple EPC businesses set records and our services business achieved record installations.
Today’s environment continues to accelerate many of the secular industry growth drivers that we outlined in our 2019 Investor Day. Data center demand, 5G infrastructure, the revival of PC demand to support work from home, virtual collaboration, remote learning and entertainment and gaming are driving an acceleration of the data era that translates across end markets and industries.
We’re also seeing this acceleration in our own business, adopting new digital productivity tools to improve collaboration with teams and customers. We’ve also increased investment to accelerate digitalization of our global enterprises. For example, in our services business, we’re working closely with our customers to expand remote service technologies, to augment our in-country service and installations engineers.
There are five highlights that stood out the most during the past quarter. First, we saw a continued strength in foundry and logic in the June quarter, and our revenue forecast for the remainder of 2020 shows relative balance between businesses from these customers. Business from memory customers is improving somewhat in the second half of 2020 versus the first half with higher business levels and more customer breadth expected in the December quarter with that momentum continuing into 2021.
Second, KLA ended the June quarter with near record total company backlog demonstrating momentum in the marketplace across our portfolio. Newly launched products, such as the well-received eSL10, e-beam inspection platform helped drive our market leadership.
Third, our services business continues to perform well and remains on track for growth and healthy free cash flow generation once again this calendar year. The services business set a record for system installations in the quarter. We see robust service contract penetration, which has risen steadily from the 70% plus contract penetration to 75% plus over the past several quarters and delivering a strong recurring revenue stream. We’re forecasting service revenue growth in 2020 in line with our long-term annual 9% to 11% target.
Fourth, the newly formed Electronics, Packaging and Components or EPC group delivered record results in the June quarter and finished above our internal forecast. within EPC, we achieved the key milestone with the SPTS delivering recordly quarterly revenue of $100 million in the June quarter. We expect 2020 to be a year of double-digit growth for SPTS. PCB also had a record quarter, driven by improved market positioning, supporting 5G infrastructure and handsets. The strong results for EPC are coming about 18 months post the acquisition of Orbotech. We’re very pleased to see the successful demonstration of our strategic growth strategies bearing fruit. We’re also on pace to achieve cost synergies from the Orbotech acquisition above the original targets.

Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our shareholders; today, we announced our board of directors has approved the eleventh consecutive annual dividend increase. The increase raises our quarterly dividend by $0.05 to $0.90 per share for an annual run rate dividend of $3.60 per share. KLA’s dividend payout has grown at a CAGR of approximately 15% since inception.
Before I hand it over to Bren, let me summarize by saying KLA is focused on innovation and execution combined with market leadership and robust free cash flow have helped us successfully navigate through these challenging times. We believe the secular factors driving industry demand in our 2023 targets remain firmly intact and will drive diversified growth the strong long-term operating leverage that positions our business to be even stronger and more resilient in the future.
With that, I’ll turn it over to Bren.
Bren Higgins
Thanks, Rick. KLA’s June quarter results highlight both the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategy. We are demonstrating our ability to meet customer needs and expand our market leadership all while growing operating profits generating strong free cash flow and maintaining our robust capital return strategies.
Total revenue was $1.46 billion. non-GAAP gross margin was 60.3%, slightly above the midpoint of the guided range of the quarter of 59% to 61%. Non-GAAP EPS was $2.73 towards the high end of the guiding range of $1.81 to $2.87. GAAP EPS was $2.63.
Revenue for the Semiconductor Process Control segment was modestly above expectations for the quarter. Foundry was once again strong at approximately 50% of semiconductor process control systems’ revenue. logic was about 10% of semiconductor systems revenue and memory customers were roughly flat at 40% in the June quarter. Within memory, the business was evenly split about 50/50 between DRAM and NAND. revenue for the specialty semiconductor process segment was a record $100 million, up 18% sequentially and 50% year-over-year is on track for double-digit growth in calendar 2020. PCB, display and component inspection revenue was also a record at $202 million, up 26% sequentially, and 10% year-over-year and above internal plans.
In terms of balance sheet highlights, KLA ended the quarter with $2 billion in cash, total data, $3.5 billion and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by investment grade ratings from all three agencies. From a cash flow and capital returns perspective, free cash flow was $411 million in the June quarter. free cash flow conversion was 96.5% and free cash flow margin was 28.2%.
for capital returns over the past 12 months, we have returned $1.35 billion to shareholders or 83% of free cash flow, including $522 million in dividends paid and $829 million in share repurchases. We believe our track record of delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis, and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders. As Rick mentioned, a moment ago, our board approved our eleventh consecutive annual dividend increase, the results in an annual run rate dividend of $3.60 per share.
as it relates to guidance for the September quarter, we’d like to start out by saying that our operations teams have done a great job of mitigating the supply chain challenges and disruptions related to COVID-19 although we are carrying more inventory to mitigate unanticipated disruptions, should they occur.
the extra measures we have taken to maintain flexibility and continuity of supply for critical components in our supply chain have definitely been effective as demonstrated by KLA’s strong results for both our March and June quarters that either met or exceeded the midpoint of guidance ranges.

with that said, we are narrowing our guidance range as we generally see consistency in the current operating environment. the demand profile today for the second half of the year is firming and we now anticipate that the second half will grow versus the first half of 2020. for the calendar year, we expect a faster than market growth year for semiconductor process control business and growth for the total company in line with or above our long-term revenue growth target range.
With that, guidance for the September quarter is as follows: total revenue is expected to be $1.48 billion plus or minus $75 million. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 60.5% to 62.5% as product makes this more favorable versus the June quarter. the market reception to new product offerings in our semiconductor process control business has been strong and as outlined at our Investor Day back in September, the company has made solid progress in our plans of driving costs and efficiencies on new product platforms and leveraging scale derived by our worldwide service infrastructure.
Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $2.18 to $2.82 and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $2.42 to $3.06.
In closing, we have adapted to a challenging environment. We are executing well and have even more confidence that we’re on track to meet our 2023 target model, both in terms of top-line growth and profitability. We are encouraged by the strength and resiliency of the KLA operating model, which guides our strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence and differentiation across an increasingly more diverse product and service offering. We also underpin our sustained technology leadership, deep competitive mode and strong track record of free cash flow generation and capital returns to shareholders.
With that, I’ll now turn the call over to Kevin to begin the Q&A.
Kevin Kessel
Charlie, please provide the instructions for the queuing and begin the Q&A.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Sure, sir. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Harlan Sur with JPMorgan. your line is now open.
Harlan Sur
good afternoon, solid job on the quarterly execution. Three months ago, the industry’s supply chain, as well as demand trends looked pretty uncertain. You fast forward to today, supply chain has come back semiconductor fundamentals while we can, June or as fully showing signs of improvement entering the second half of the year. If I look at your results and guide and make some assumptions on December, it looks like you will be towards the upper end of your pre-COVID-19 revenue outlook or sort of in that low-double digits percentage revenue goal for this calendar year first. is that a fair assumption and maybe some commentary on your WFE spending outlook today versus pre-COVID-19 earlier this year?
Bren Higgins
Hey, Harlan, it’s Bren and I’ll go first here. So, I think your conclusions are generally correct. As we said in the prepared remarks, we see our view on the year to be generally at the – within our long-term target growth range of 7% to 9% or above. And so as we look at the year overall, I don’t think things have changed all that much. I mean, you’re right. There was a lot that had to be done back in March and June in terms of managing supply chain and supporting customers, but we’ve worked through all that and we’ve got some consistency now in our overall view. So in general, I would say that our views overall are virtually unchanged. on WFE, everybody counts it up a little bit differently, but I would – so I don’t want to put a point number out there, but I would say that somewhere in the mid-to-high single-digit type growth, 55 to – or mid-50s to high-50s, probably the right way to think about it.

Harlan Sur
Great. Thanks for that. And you entered the June quarter, I remember what the view of strong specialty semiconductor trends, but maybe, more meta trends within some of your other EPC segments like PCB and display as these are more consumer and sort of auto focused – automotive focus segments for you guys and probably, more impacted by COVID-19. but you’ve got it delivered strong double-digit sequential and year-over-year growth in the PCB, display and component inspection business. So, what drove these solid trends and how are you thinking about this particular segment as you move through the second half of this year?
Rick Wallace
Yes. thanks, Harlan. We’re really pleased with their performance in EPC and I think you have to – when you think about the different divisions, we saw a strong continuing momentum in packaging, and that’s really the ICOS business. We’re also seeing SPTS, the specialty semi business had a very strong showing and we mentioned that set a record there for revenue. PCB was earlier in the year, looked like it was going to soften and it strengthened and driven a lot by 5g infrastructure build out and we feel really good about the execution in that team. display is still in a tough spot and that’s not one that really, we saw a lot of strength and we’re following through on the conversations we’ve had on display, where we’re working on the cost structure and being positioned for when the recovery happens there. But I think the other business is – the other thing that’s really notable is SPTs had a very strong quarter in spite of no automotive business.
So that’s really upside as we go forward. I think it’s pretty fair to say automotive semiconductors have bottomed. And so we feel pretty good about – it’s pretty much all upside from here as the spending has probably been curtailed, but showed signs toward the end of next year – this year and then into 2021, we’ll see some resumption of investment as the electrification projects continue. So yes, we feel good about where we are with that and we are definitely getting traction, having those under one organization and engaging with customers at a high level.
Bren Higgins
Hey, Harlan, it’s bren. The only other thing I’ll add to that is we go back to April, when we were thinking about the quarter, it was unclear what the handset environment would look like in the second half of the year. And so I think one of the encouraging signs that we did see to Rick’s point was the PCB business was really driven by 5G and the preparation for the handset introductions that are to come. So, that was a bit of a surprise for us or perhaps had someone known built into it just related to overall COVID. So, I drove the SPTS business as Rick said, but also drove incremental upside in PCB.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
John Pitzer
Yes. good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the solid results. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Bren, just on the gross margin guide into September, pretty good sequential growth. I’m wondering if you could just unpack that a little bit. Is this a larger percent coming from the semi process control or is it mixed within SPC? And I guess importantly, do you think that the June quarter and now growth into September is a trend that you can sustain going forward? Or is this kind of an anomaly quarter relative to mix?
Bren Higgins
Yes. Hey, John. So, I would say that, yes, I mean, quarter-to-quarter, we’re seeing sequential growth in semi PC. and so that’s having a positive effect on gross margins. And so I think that what we’re seeing there, I’m encouraged as I said in the shareholder letter, we talked a lot about driving cost and efficiency improvements in new platforms and customer section has been strong. So, we feel pretty good about the product portfolio we have and the margin position.

So, let me just say that I have more confidence around our margin trajectory moving forward, although quarter-to-quarter, the mixed dynamic tends to be the biggest factor that drives our margin around this range. But certainly, as we look forward, we feel pretty confident that we should be able to maintain this sort of 61% and above type trajectory that that we’re experiencing right now.
John Pitzer
Helpful. And then as my follow-up, Rick, you talked about second half of the calendar year growing over the first half, I’m kind of curious if you could break that down between sort of memory and logic/foundry, and how might that have changed over the last 90 days? I don’t want to words in your mouth, but it sounds like maybe, you’re less optimistic about a memory uptick in the back half of the year and perhaps more optimistic about logic/foundry sustaining, and if that’s the case in any read as we go into calendar year 2021.
Rick Wallace
Yes. We do see we see – we think there’s a lot of evidence that the foundry-logic is going to hold through the second half. And I think that also now, we’re getting indications of strength going into 2021. Part of the uncertainty, I think around the year that everybody has is the memory recovery probably towards the end of the calendar year. And that’s really where we would expect it to Q4 to strengthen there. So that’s I think maybe the less certain part of that, but the setup for logic looks really good. I think the progress that customers and designs, and the ongoing investment by our customers and in multiple design wins and multiple proliferation of devices and multiple players. So, we’re also getting breadth and our products are doing really well. So, we feel pretty strong about how the logic/foundry is going to hold up.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Krish Sankar with Cowen and company. Your line is now open.
Krish Sankar
Yes. Hi, thanks for taking my question. I have two of them. First one either Rick or Bren, clearly, like two of your largest logic and foundry customers have spoken about push out of either the 7-nanometer or potentially even the 3-nanometer on the foundry side. with the backdrop, how do you think of KLA’s process control revenue opportunity over the next year or two, given that some of the leading-edge nodes are getting pushed out and then I have a follow-up?
Rick Wallace
Yes. There’s really nothing that’s been discussed publicly that hadn’t been the way we’d been factoring and forecasting our business. So, it’s pretty much consistent with what we’ve seen. I think some of the public announcements are catching up with some of what was going on. you have to look at why there are delays; when there are delays and the delays tend to come from it’s much more an inability to execute than it is a demand. There’s plenty of demand at the leading edge. It’s the challenges associated with yield management with process control with the overall process integration and those are factors that we’re heavily involved in.
So, we think that there’s a lot of continued momentum for us and process control both metrology and inspection on the leading nodes. And so that’s part of why our earlier comments in the last Q&A question, where about the strength that we see through the calendar year and then into 2021. So, we feel pretty good about how that’s going. And I think our in partnership with our customers; we’re helping them work through some of the most challenging metrology and effectivity issues. Some of which frankly, they did not anticipate, but we did and we’ve been showing some value and getting adoption as a result. Does that make sense?
Krish Sankar
Yes, yes. that does. thanks a lot, Rick. And then just to follow-up on the product side, you guys introduced pattern wafer e-beam inspection to look semicon. I’m just trying to figure it out, is your e-beam tool still focused on defect detection, or you feel looking at pattern facility of voltage contract, and your competent isn’t going to like multi-beam tools. You guys are still at single beam. So, you just want to figure out the e-beam roadmap. Thank you.

Rick Wallace
Yes. So, what we wanted to make sure is that we could provide differentiated performance for – to address the market gaps that existed and that we could provide customers a complimentary solution along with our optical tools, because what they’re really trying to balance is how do they get all the characterization understanding and product development that they’re looking for out of a portfolio? So, we have some unique capabilities in our e-beam inspection tool. We think that the coverage it provides and the uniqueness, in addition to the fact that it’s closely coupled with our optical tools, it gives a very strong advantage to our customers by using them in parallel. And that’s what we’re seeing.
We have mapped out and we have a lot of confidence that we understand what the roadmaps look like in terms of the different e-beam architectures and we feel very confident about our ability to be competitive in e-beam. We wouldn’t have reentered the market if we didn’t feel like we had a differentiated solution. And so that’s the ability both to find the defects of interest and to find them as throughputs that are compelling for our customers and we – as we map out the future, we don’t see any gap between us and competitors. In fact, we see that we have the ability to continue to differentiate our solution.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of CJ Muse with Evercore ISI. your line is now open.
CJ Muse
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question, I was hoping you could provide a little more color on your prepared comments, regarding memory and a greater breadth of spending into Q4 and then beyond into 2021. We’d love to hear kind of what you’re hearing in dialogue with customers there.
Bren Higgins
Yes, CJ. it’s bren. So I mean, judging by our percent of business for the September quarter’s memory. It’s lighter than in June. So, most of what we see in the second half, and this was one area, where it wasn’t all that clear if you back up three months ago and say, okay, we thought we’d see some memory recovery in the second half of the year wasn’t exactly sure when we’d see it. But as we’ve – so it looks like it’s more December focused. And it – I would say, it is probably heavier on the flash side, although there is fluidity in terms of how customers are thinking about investment plans, but I think you can look at all the players that are out there that we would expect to see business start to improve in that timeframe. And then I think there’s solid momentum as we move into next year.
I don’t want to provide a color on 2021, but I think as we take a step back and look at where memory has been, I mean, starting in the middle of 2018, we’ve seen a pullback and very disciplined management of memory capacity and most of the investment focused on technology transition. So, as that market continues to recover, I think that the market’s in a pretty healthy place overall as we move into 2021.
CJ Muse
That’s helpful. As my follow-up for the PCB display and component business including service, how are you thinking about second half calendar year versus the first half? And then as part of that, how should we be thinking about seasonality in terms of peak quarter Q3 versus Q4 given how dominant PCB is within the construct there. Thank you.
Bren Higgins
Yes, SPTS, I would – it potentially could be flattish half to half. We’ll have to see how it plays out. I think PCB second half will be slightly – it will probably be lower in the second half, given what’s driven that the strength we saw in the June quarter, I would expect a lot of focus on execution as we move into the second half there. on the flat panel business, I wouldn’t expect much to change on that front. It is a 100% consumer focus. There’s virtually no LCD investment out there. And so there’s a fair amount of digestion of that capacity that’s still being worked through. So, I don’t expect any growth; in fact, maybe, second half might be flat to modestly down in that business.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel. Your line is now 