KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC) Q2 2021 Results Earnings Conference Call February  3, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Kevin Kessel - Vice President, Investor Relations
Rick Wallace - Chief Executive Officer
Bren Higgins - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Patrick Ho - Stifel
Joe Quatrochi - Wells Fargo
CJ Muse - Evercore
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Krish Sankar - Cowen & Company
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Sidney Ho - Deutsche Bank
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
Quinn Bolton - Needham & Company
Operator
Good day. My name is Priscilla, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation December Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. All participants’ lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
Thank you. I would now turn the call over to Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Kevin Kessel
Thank you. And welcome to KLA’s Fiscal Q2 2021 Quarterly Earnings Call to discuss the results of the December Quarter and our Outlook for the March Quarter. With me today is Rick Wallace, our Chief Executive Officer; and Bren Higgins, our Chief Financial Officer.
During today’s call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ending December 31, 2020, that we released today after the market closed in the form of a press release, shareholder letter and slide deck. All are available on the KLA IR section of our website.
Today’s discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis, unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in today’s earnings materials posted on our website.
Today’s call also represents the end of the calendar year. We will make references to both 2020 and 2021. Please note all references are for the calendar year. Our IR website also contains future virtual investor conferences, as well as presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most recent annual report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the Risk Factor disclosure in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call today, are also subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
As many of you now know, we changed the format of our earnings two quarters ago to include pre-publishing a detailed shareholder letter that provides updates on our business performance. The pre-publishing allows this call to be efficient by providing more streamlined comments while also freeing up more time for your questions and answers.
With that, I’d like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wallace.
Rick Wallace
Thanks, Kevin. And thank you for joining us today and for your interest in KLA. As we reflect on the accomplishments of 2020, it’s important for me to first appreciate and acknowledge the global KLA team.
Your perseverance, drive to be better and determination enabled KLA to rise to the challenge and deliver for our customers. 2020 was like no other year we have seen and while our teams have not been physically together for the most part; our company continues to demonstrate the great KLA culture of collaboration and innovation and is emerging stronger than ever.
In the process, we delivered exceptionally strong financial results in the December quarter closing a strong year for the company. In our shareholder letter published today, we articulate how KLA’s record results are driven by success on multiple fronts, including the resourcefulness of our global workforce, the resiliency of our business model and our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
As most of you have already seen from our results, 2020 was an impressive year for KLA on multiple fronts. We delivered strong growth, profitability and free cash flow, while continuously adjusting to the changing work environments driven by COVID. Through it all, we remained focused on meeting customer demand and delivering strong returns to shareholders in the rapidly growing semiconductor market.
Bren will have much more to highlight on the financials for both the quarter and the year, but I’d like to hit on a few of the annual milestones. For the year, KLA revenue grew 15% to $6.1 billion, marking the fifth consecutive year of growth.
We also delivered notable profitability growth with non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP earnings per share increasing 28% and 32%, respectively year-over-year. Our free cash flow grew 44% to $1.8 billion and we returned $1.2 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
In the December quarter, we saw a diversified strength across each of our segments. Semiconductor Process Control revenue was once again above plan. The Electronics, Packaging, and Components group met its target and our Services business continued and delivered another quarter of growth and strong operating leverage.
We ended the year with strong backlog setting the stage for double-digit growth in 2021 as we continue to execute at a high level. We are operating from a position of strength in our marketplace and given the accelerated growth of our served markets, we remain solidly on track to meet and likely exceed our 2023 financial targets. All this reflects the dedication of our global teams and the enabling role KLA plays in our customers’ technology roadmaps and enhancing their return on capital investment.
Moving to today’s demand environment, which continues to demonstrate accelerated adoption of several Semiconductor and Electronics industry growth drivers that we have been highlighting for the past few years, technology continues to transform how we live and work and the data-driven economy is fundamentally changing how businesses operate and deliver value.
This digital transformation is enabling secular demand drivers such as high performance computing, artificial intelligence and rapid growth in new automotive electronics, and 5G communications markets. Each of these secular trends are driving investment and innovation in advanced memory and logic semiconductor devices, as well as new and increasingly more complex advanced packaging and PCB technologies.
With our market leadership in process control and growth and expansion to new markets like specialty semiconductor process equipment, PCB, and finished die inspection in our EPC Group, KLA is essential to enabling our increasingly digital world.
As much as things have changed over the past year, one thing that’s remained a constant is our KLA operating model. KLA operating model is the enduring framework that we rely on to guide the execution of our long-term strategic objectives.
We deploy the KLA operating model to align the company on a consistent strategy, tie accountability to results, drive product development execution, respond to changing market conditions and facilitate continuous improvement, while ensuring the company operates with strong fiscal discipline as we pursue our long-term performance and profitability objectives.
Let’s turn now to five top highlights for our -- in our results for the quarter and for 2020. First, we saw a continued strength and breadth in foundry/logic demand in the quarter. As expected, memory demand also grew, as memory customers plan for growth and equipment investment in 2021 to meet improving end demand.
We expect higher business levels across a broader set of customers in the March quarter, with demand momentum continuing throughout 2021 across our major end markets. The strength in demand we are seeing reflects KLA’s essential role in supporting our customers’ drive to innovate and continue to invest in future technology nodes.
Second, we are seeing strong momentum in the marketplace from new products, driving market growth and share opportunities in both the Semiconductor Process Control and EPC Groups. Fueled by expanded customer investment and EUV lithography, the Semiconductor Process Control business is driving adoption with new applications in optical inspection portfolio such as EUV print check for GEN5 and expanding our share in new markets for KLA, including the eSL10 e-beam inspection platform and the nascent use of X-ray technologies for metrology applications.
Third, our Services revenue grew to $1.56 billion or 25% of total sales in 2020. This is driven by growth in our install base, higher utilization rate and increasing expansion of service opportunities in the trailing edge and in the EPC Group.
The strong results delivered in 2020 show how the Services team continues to do a fantastic job leveraging the KLA operating model to deliver at a high level. Working in close collaboration with customers and partners, the Services business innovated and drove new initiatives against the unprecedented challenges of COVID.
Not only did our Services business receive praise from our customers but also grew share of wallet and we have seen our contact penetration steadily increase in 2020 from 70% to 75% plus, which fuels recurring revenue streams and generates strong operating leverage and cash flows.
Fourth, this was a very encouraging year for the newly established EPC Group, demonstrating success and KLA’s growth strategies and highlighting how execution of the KLA operating model drives market leadership and improved operating leverage in acquired businesses.
Revenue growth was strong and we believe that on a net basis will exceed our $50 million annual acquisition cost synergy target by at least another additional $30 million. With EPC, KLA is now providing a more comprehensive and broader product portfolio, and addressing fast growing new markets in the Electronics value chain such as RF, automotive, 5G wireless connectivity and display.
Relative to the adoption of 5G, KLA has exposure to many key components in the Electronics value chain as well. The EPC Group ended the year with record backlog setting the stage for double-digit growth in 2021 and for incremental operating margins on that growth in line with the total company model.
Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our shareholders, in the December quarter, we repurchased $177 million of common stock and paid $140 million in dividends.
Back in July, KLA’s Board of Directors authorized the 11th consecutive annual dividend increase to a yearly run rate of $3.60 per share. Since inception in 2006, KLA’s dividend payout has grown at a CAGR of approximately 15%. In 2020, KLA returned to $1.23 billion to shareholders or 70% of free cash flow.
Before Bren gets into the greater detail of our financial highlights, let me briefly summarize. Despite the disruption and unforeseen challenges that persisted throughout the year associated with COVID, KLA has benefited from the resourcefulness of its global workforce, we have adapted well and we end 2020 in a position of strength, while delivering record results and set the stage for the sixth consecutive year of growth.
KLA is exceptionally well-positioned at the forefront of technology innovation with a comprehensive portfolio of products to meet the demanding customer requirements, which balance sensitivity and throughput. The Semiconductor and Electronics landscape is constantly changing, and we are seeing broadening customer interest, which was being applied to more technology innovation than ever before at leading edge.
We believe the secular factors driving industry demand that we identified at our last Investor Day are even more relevant now than they were then and this will help us to meet and likely exceed our 2023 financial targets. At the same time, our strategy of driving diversified growth with strong long-term operating leverage should provide consistent capital returns to our shareholders.
And with that, I will pass the call over to Bren.
Bren Higgins
Thanks, Rick, and good afternoon, everyone. KLA’s December quarter and 2020 results highlight the soundness and strength of our ongoing strategy. We continue to demonstrate our ability to meet customer needs and expand our market leadership, while growing operating profits, generating record free cash flow and maintaining our long-term strategy of productive capital allocation.
2020 was a year of strong growth and profitability across multiple areas of our business. All of this was accomplished while simultaneously continuing to return high levels of capital to shareholders.
Total revenue in the December quarter was $1.65 billion, a very top of the guided range for the quarter of $1.51 billion to $1.66 billion. Non-GAAP gross margin was 61.8%, slightly below the midpoint of the guided range for the quarter of 61% to 63%.
Non-GAAP EPS was $3.24, probably, above the midpoint of the guided range of $2.82 to $3.46. GAAP EPS was $2.94. At the guided tax rate of 13%, non-GAAP EPS would have been $0.03 higher or $3.27.
Total operating expenses were above the guided range of $393 million, including $228 million of R&D expense and $165 million of SG&A. Non-GAAP operating income as a percent of revenue was strong at 38% and in line with expectations.
The higher operating expenses in the quarter were due in part to adjustments in variable compensation programs, as well as the timing of prototype material purchases for product development programs.
Based on revenue expectations for 2021, product development requirements, particularly in programs supporting next-generation reticle inspection capabilities and the regionalization of additional customer engagement resources, we expect operating expenses to be approximately $400 million in the March quarter and we are budgeting quarterly operating expenses roughly within the range of $400 million to $405 million over the near-term horizon. Given topline expectations for 2021, we expect that the business will continue to outperform its target operating model in terms of overall profitability and operating margin leverage.
Other interest and expense in the December quarter was $43 million and the effective tax rate was 13.8%. Though we always have some variability in our tax rate given the timing and impact of discrete items and the geographic distribution of revenue and profit, we believe it is prudent to adjust our long-term tax planning rate up slightly to 13.5% going forward. Of course, we are monitoring the corporate tax discussions in the United States and we will provide updates on how those will affect or would affect KLA as appropriate in the future.
Non-GAAP net income was $504 million, GAAP net income was $457 million, cash flow from operations was $561 million and free cash flow was a record at $502 million. This resulted in the free cash flow conversion of nearly 100% and a very healthy free cash flow margin of just over 30%.
Our segment revenue was strong in the quarter, driven by growth in our Semiconductor Process Control business. The EPC Group delivered results in line with our model heading into the quarter. Revenue for the Semiconductor Process Control segment including its associated Service business was $1.38 billion, a sequential quarterly increase of 9% and up 15% for 2020.
Approximate customer segment mix is as follows; foundry was strong as expected at 49%, logic was 10% and memory grew to 41% from 32% in the December quarter. Within memory, the business was roughly 60% NAND and 40% DRAM.
Going forward, we will be combining the foundry and logic segments into one category to remove some of the noise as to whether our customers in one category or another given the various markets they serve and to better align with industry-reporting practices.
Revenue for the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment in December was $91 million, up 2% sequentially and up 24% in 2020. Demand in this segment was driven by growth in RF, MEMS, and advanced packaging.
PCB, display and component inspection revenue was $179 million, down 1% sequentially, but up 12% for 2020, as strength in PCB and component inspection offset a weaker business environment in the display business.
In terms of balance sheet highlights, KLA ended the quarter with $2.3 billion in total cash, total debt of $3.46 billion and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by investment-grade ratings from all three agencies.
From a cash flow and capital returns perspective, during the December quarter, we repurchased $177 million of common stock and paid $140 million in dividends. In 2020, KLA return $1.2 billion to shareholders or 70% of free cash flow, including $547 million in dividends paid and $681 million and share repurchases. We believe our track record for delivering strong capital returns is a key component of the KLA investment thesis and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders.
As it relates to guidance as we begin the New Year, our view is that the fab -- wafer fab equipment or WFE market will grow in the mid-teens, plus or minus a couple of percentage points in 2021 off a baseline of $59 billion to $60 billion.
2021 is expected to be a year of strong demand and growth across our major end markets with the strongest percentage growth coming in memory led by DRAM investment and with foundry/logic delivering another year of solid growth.
Looking ahead, based on our current backlog, sales funnel visibility over the next couple of quarters and product lead times, we are encouraged by the sustainability of our current demand profile for the year. As a result, we would expect the company revenue to be roughly consistent quarter-to-quarter across the year.
Our March quarter guidance is as follows; total revenue is expected to be in a range of $1.74 billion, plus or minus $75 million; foundry/logic is forecasted to be about 68% of semi process control systems’ revenue; memory is expected to be approximately 32%.
We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of 61.25% to 63.25%, as we expect a richer product mix, continued service leverage and higher volume will lead to improved gross margins compared to the December quarter. Based on revenue and product mix expectations for 2021, we are modeling gross margins between 61.5% and 62% in 2021.
Given the structural trends in our business in both cost and product positioning, my bias today is to the high end of this range. Other model assumptions include operating expense of approximately $400 million, interest and other expense of approximately $43 million, and an effective tax rate of approximately 13.5%.
Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $2.98 to $3.66 and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $3.23 to $3.91. The EPS guidance is based on a fully diluted share count of approximately $155 million shares.
In closing, the end market dynamics driving semiconductors and investments in WFE remain compelling, with solid demand across end markets and at multiple technology nodes. 2021 is setting up to be a second consecutive year of double-digit growth for both WFE and KLA.
KLA is executing well with continued confidence that we are on track to meet and likely exceed our 2023 financial targets. The KLA operating model positions us well to outperform and also guide our strategic objectives.
These objectives fuel our growth, operational excellence and differentiation across an increasingly more diverse product and service offering. They also underpin our sustained technology leadership, deep competitive mode and strong track record of free cash flow generation and capital returns to shareholders.
With that, I will turn the call over to Kevin to begin the Q&A. Kevin?
Kevin Kessel
Thanks, Bren. Priscilla, if you could provide the instructions for Q&A?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Patrick Ho with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Patrick Ho
Thank you very much and a belated Happy New Year and congrats to you guys. Rick, maybe first off, in terms of process control intensity, we have seen foundry and logic continue to grow as we go through these node migrations. And NAND flash has obviously seen intensity rise with the increasing layer counts. As we look at DRAM and the projected pickup that you mentioned in your prepared remarks, what types of process control intensity increases are you seeing in that marketplace? Maybe even excluding some of the EUV options that are out there, what other types of process control intensity trends are increasing in DRAM?
Rick Wallace
Sure. I think that there -- if you think about DRAM, what they have really been pushing on and it’s very difficult as you know to do it is to continue scaling and we do think that there is going to be some EUV that comes in. But there is no question that there is scaling happening, and of course, that drives more process control intensity.
The other thing that’s pretty clear in DRAM is the overlay requirements continue to get more and more challenging. So we are seeing increased -- trying to understand how to squeeze more capability out of the lithography sets that they have got.
And then we do see some, as I say, EUV adoption. So we think there will be incrementally more focus on our more advanced optical inspection tools to be able to support that. So that’s what we are seeing as a trend. It’s not necessarily, obviously, as EUV-heavy as what we would see in foundry/logic, but there is some element of EUV in there. Does that answer your question, Patrick?
Patrick Ho
Hey. It does, Rick. Thank you. Bren, as a follow-up to that question, you guys as you are seeing demand pickup and revenues grow, your working capital metrics have actually also improved. What changes have you made, particularly given that you have added Orbotech over the last few years, but you see the inventory turns actually improving even as demand picks up. What are some of the dynamics there?
Bren Higgins
Well, hey, Patrick. It’s a great question. And certainly adding Orbotech in and I think we have done a pretty good job of improving overall asset velocity in that business so far. I think there is room for us to improve it going forward.
But on the KLA side, one of the areas where you could argue that we -- I think we do something in our business to support and I think we get paid for in terms of our profitability, but to support our model. Both in terms of the component differentiation we have that drives our differentiation of our products but also that enables our service business.
So we have always tended to carry a lot of inventory because we are supporting these tools that last a long time in the field. And we also have very exclusive relationships and a lot of our key supplier relationships that help us, as I said protect differentiation.
So as a result of all that, it does drive higher inventory commitments and we carry that risk, if you will. Although, we never get stuck with extra systems and given the strength of the Service business we tend to move the part.
So we think it’s a good sacrifice to make. We think we get paid for it in terms of the profitability and structure of our business. And the volume we have seen has allowed us to improve it a little bit. It’s -- this is not a turns business for the most part. So I think there’s probably an upper limit to it. But we have -- we do focus on and I think we have improved it a little bit over time.
Patrick Ho
Thank you very much.
Operator
We will take our next question from Joe Quatrochi with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Joe Quatrochi
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to go back to your comment about revenues should be relatively consistent quarter-to-quarter in 2021. Is that a process control tool comment as well, I guess what I am trying to understand is, what you are seeing relative to maybe peers talking about WFE being a little bit more first half weighted?
Bren Higgins
Yeah. Joe, so it’s a good question. So what we are trying to do, first of all, it’s really for both groups of our business, if you look at the EPC Group and as well as the process control equipment part of the business.
I was really trying to do a few things. First, obviously, we are guiding March and we have got a nice sequential increase to the March quarter. We wanted to provide our view of WFE growth for ‘21 and expectations for KLA in the year.
And the third thing was to provide just some context on the demand profile as we move through the year. And as I said in the prepared remarks, it looks relatively consistent. Now I am not guiding the June quarter, I am not guiding September, I am not guiding December, but what I wanted to do is provide a little bit more context.
Now we do have tools that cost from $10 million to $20 million, sometimes even more than that. So there is the usual variability that you have related to the timing of a shipment, the customer acceptance, the consignment buyout and so on.
But when we look across our business, it looks relatively consistent from a demand profile point of view, and I think starting with the backlog we have, the visibility we have in the funnel and then just the general lead time dynamics of our products, it gives me some comfort with that statement.
Joe Quatrochi
Okay. That’s helpful. And then you talked about the other investments you are making on the product development side, and clearly, you guys are strongly outperforming your long-term profitability targets. I was curious, how do you think about opportunities to maybe even spend a little bit more and accelerate some of the product development projects you have got going on?
Bren Higgins
Sounds like you have been talking to some of our guys inside it. Sometimes Rick and I are the only two people in the company, I think, we ought to spend less. But anyway, to answer your question, look we have a rigorous process where we look at the portfolio of the business and look at how we get returns on that portfolio.
So we have ramped up our investments in R&D and product development over the last few years. We think that there are opportunities. One of the biggest drivers that’s driving the uptick that I articulated here as we look at ‘21 is investment in multiple programs supporting reticle inspection, qualification and so on.
So I think that that’s been an area of focus for us. But we feel pretty comfortable with our process around R&D and the timing of our road map related to our customer requirements and it’s worked pretty well for KLA.
I think what’s driving more of our model upside is more of a gross margin dynamic than a cost dynamic. And so, I think, the gross margin is reflective of the differentiation that we have with our products in the field and I think the value we are adding to our customers. So hopefully that answers your question.
Joe Quatrochi
Yeah. Perfect. Thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from CJ Muse with Evercore. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
CJ Muse
Yeah. Thank you for taking the question. I guess two questions if I could put them together. The first one would be around EUV shortages at ASML, is that impacting GEN5 optical demand at all? And then, I guess, secondly, I am a little bit surprised that you are guiding Orbotech business is flat half-on-half, typically there is a seasonal uplift into the back half. I am curious if that’s a conservative outlook, whether seasonality has changed or there is something that we should be kind of thinking about? Thank you.
Bren Higgins
Yeah. CJ, nicely done, those are not related at all, those two questions, as you know. But I will take them. The first one, no, we don’t see any slowdown in the EUV impact if the delays that were outlined by ASML in terms of the demand for GEN5, if anything, it’s kind of gone the other way.
What’s happened in the last few months is, I think, the realization that some of the yield challenges associated with the EUV are best approach -- best addressed by having more GEN5 capacity and so we are actually maxed out and trying to ramp that in order to support it. So we have very strong GEN5, we don’t see any delay in that and we have a lot of conversations with customers about our ability to support that.
In terms of Orbotech, in terms of that, I would say, it’s a complicated business overall to aggregate and so we don’t really see anything, any signs of concern. We do see continued growth in that business. We feel good about where we set out our plans for 2023 in terms of the