Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ:MRVL) Q2 2021 Results Conference Call August 27, 2020  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Ashish Saran - VP, IR
Matt Murphy - President and CEO
Jean Hu - CFO
Conference Call Participants
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Tore Svanberg - Stifel
Karl Ackerman - Cowen
Michelle Waller - Needham
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo Security
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Second Quarter Fiscal 2021 Marvell Technology Group Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today’s conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]
It is now my pleasure to introduce Vice President of Investor Relations, Ashish Saran.
Ashish Saran
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Marvell’s second quarter fiscal year 2021 earnings call. Joining me today are Matt Murphy, Marvell’s President and CEO; and Jean Hu, our CFO.
I would like to remind everyone that certain comments made today may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management’s current expectations. Please review the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our earnings press release, which we filed with the SEC today and posted on our website, as well as our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements.
During our call today, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available on our website in the Investor Relations section.
With that, I’ll turn the call over to Matt for his comments on our performance.
Matt Murphy
Thanks. Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we delivered strong financial results and achieved $727 million in revenue, $7 million above the midpoint of guidance. Revenue grew 5% sequentially and 11% year over year. Our GAAP loss per share was $0.24. Our non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.21, above the midpoint of guidance, driven by higher revenue, better gross margins, and lower operating expenses.
We’re now halfway through our fiscal year, a time period, which has turned out to be very different than we had all imagined, impacted by a global crisis that has significantly disrupted our daily lives and altered our work environment. The Marvell team has met these challenges head-on and has been executing at a very high level. I’m continually impressed by the relentless determination of our engineering teams in the face of a multitude of unprecedented circumstances, like having to manage a chip bring up remotely.
I have proudly watched our sales, marketing, and support teams embrace Marvell’s new brand identity and use current circumstances to increase customer engagement. In times of uncertainty, I believe that we benefit significantly in building upon our existing, deep-rooted engagements. When customers make forward-looking platform decisions, their experience with our products and trust in our team works to our advantage. We have continued to close design wins at an impressive rate. While getting a design win is a critical milestone, getting our customers to production and volume ramp is the ultimate goal. To that end, over the last few months, we have received customer approval to move into production several key programs, including a critical SSD controller and a cloud ASIC which are both ramping now, and a 5G baseband processor for Nokia is expected to start ramping later this fiscal year.

Let me now provide an update on our process technology platform and our custom ASIC chip strategy. Underpinning the development of all our high-performance storage, networking, compute, and security products is our industry-leading IP portfolio, developed on the leading edge of process technology. Earlier this week, we announced an extension of our long-term collaboration with TSMC, the world’s largest dedicated semiconductor foundry to deliver a comprehensive silicon portfolio leveraging the industry’s most advanced 5-nanometer process technology. This joint development positions Marvell for multigenerational leadership in data infrastructure technology. This accelerated cadence in driving to the latest process node and jumping to 5 nanometers is the outcome of our multiyear evolution to focus on data infrastructure.
In the infrastructure market, 5G, cloud, enterprise, and automotive customers are migrating to silicon partners who can solve their most challenging problems, requiring the highest performance to be delivered within a very-tight power budget. This requires access to the latest process technology. The acquisition of Cavium with their processing and compute-heavy portfolio further crystallized the need to change our strategy from a fast follower to a technology leader.
The later acquisition of Avera was done with a recognition that our advanced process roadmap would be a significant step up for Avera’s ASIC technology platform and will also increase the volume of projects in advanced geometries with the subsequent benefit to scale across all of Marvell.
The leadership position we have established for our process technology platform is the culmination of the last two years of hard work by our central engineering team. This has been a key driver of our recent success in winning sockets in multiple upcoming platforms, such as next generation 5G base stations.
Marvell’s 5-nanometer platform solution covers the full spectrum of infrastructure requirements, including high-speed 112 gigabit per second long-reach SerDes processors subsystems, encryption engines, system-on-chip fabrics, chip-to-chip interconnects, and a variety of physical layer interfaces. We have multiple 5-nanometer products in development now on TSMC’s N5P process, an enhanced version of TSMC’s 5-nanometer technology, which delivers higher performance and up to approximately 40% lower power compared to the previous 7-nanometer generation. We expect to start sampling these products by the end of ‘21, with volume production soon thereafter.
Our advanced technology is a key enabler of our new custom ASIC platform, which builds upon the Avera acquisition. While customizing silicon is not new to Marvell, this acquisition significantly expanded our capabilities to become a much broader custom silicon supplier. We benefit from Avera’s decades of experience in developing over 2,000 complex full custom ASICs as part of IBM and GlobalFoundries.
We believe that access to our more advanced process platform combined with exposure to Marvell’s large customer base opens up a host of new opportunities for the Avera team. Equally important, we are evolving the traditional ASIC model by including all of Marvell’s leading standard product IP into Avera’s custom platform. The breadth of IP we’re offering for customization is what sets us apart. We aren’t just providing high-speed SerDes and other foundational IP, we are also providing highly scalable multi-core ARM processors, Ethernet switches, and controllers, storage controllers and more. This IP can be integrated on chip, or as a companion chip, tightly coupled with advanced system and package solutions. Customers can reuse Marvell’s hardened and widely deployed IP and focus their engineering teams on only the unique aspects of their application, benefiting from faster time to market and lower program risk by using our proven technology.

I’m very-pleased to announce that our ASIC team has recently won a major design win under the Marvell umbrella with a Tier 1 hyperscaler. This is a new ASIC account for the Avera team, and we hope that this is the first in a series of design wins with this important customer. 
Let me, now provide an update on our server processor strategy. Very much aligned with our growing emphasis on custom solutions, we are evolving our ARM-based server processor efforts towards a custom engagement model. Over the last few years, we have developed multiple generations of ARM server processors and have been working with customers to qualify our products for volume adoption. Our ThunderX2 processor was the industry’s first ARM-based processor, capable of powering dual socket servers, which can go toe-to-toe with x86-based solutions and that has established the performance credentials for ARM in the server market.
Hyperscale datacenter customers represent the largest opportunity for ARM server processes. Having worked with them for multiple generations, it has become apparent that the long-term opportunity is for ARM server processors customized to their specific use cases rather than the standard off-the-shelf products. The power of the ARM architecture has always been in its ability to be integrated into highly customized designs optimized for specific use cases, and we see hyperscale datacenter applications is no different.
With our breadth of processor knowhow and now our custom ASIC capability, Marvell is uniquely positioned to address this opportunity. A significant amount of unique ARM server processor IP and technology we have developed over the last few years is ideal to create the custom processors hyperscalers are requesting. Therefore, we have decided to target future investments in the ARM server market, exclusively on custom solutions. The business model will be similar to our ASIC and custom programs, where customers contribute engineering and mask expenses to NRE for us to develop and produce products specifically for them. We believe that this is the best way for us to continue to drive the growing adoption of our base compute within the server market.
While we continue to invest in a number of initiatives to drive long-term growth, such as advanced process technology, new markets, such as automotive and the launch of our new brand, our team has also remained focused on driving operational excellence. The successful integration of Aquantia and Avera, continued operational discipline, and the change in scope of the ARM server project are collectively driving a significant reduction in our quarterly operating expenses from the current $300 million non-GAAP run rate to the $280 million we are guiding for the third quarter.
Our success in customer engagements where we do not need to bear the cost and risk of new product development completely on our own, has also enabled us to manage OpEx tightly, while continuing to invest in advanced technology. The increased willingness of our customers to co-invest with us is truly a testament to the trust and belief they have in our capabilities to provide them with differentiated solutions.
Improvements in efficiency and the cost structure of the Company allow us to improve our earnings power, while we continue to invest more in R&D as a percentage of revenue than any other semiconductor company our size. We’re investing heavily because we believe we can grow faster than the industry, and we have the conviction in our strategy to drive long-term growth. However, we remain extremely diligent about how we allocate the Company’s resources.
Last week, we held our annual strategic portfolio review, where we deep dive into each of our product lines, evaluate end market dynamics, and review progress against our goals. This review is the cornerstone of our annual business planning process and lays the strategic foundation for everything else. This was our fifth review since I joined Marvell in 2016, and it was by far the best one. It is clear how far we have come over that time period and I could not be more impressed by the quality of our leaders and their depth of experience and technical capabilities.

Every year this process informs our capital allocation decisions and has driven a significant improvement in the quality of our businesses over time. I expect this cycle will be no different as we continue to drive long-term success for our employees, customers and investors.
Let me now move on to discussing our two businesses in more detail. First, in our networking business, revenue group during the quarter, was $406 million and grew 3% sequentially and 23% year-over-year. Growth was driven primarily by ongoing 5G deployments in China. In the cloud data center end market, we started ramping a new custom ship at Tier 1 hyperscaler. A LiquidIO programmable SmartNIC and LiquidSecurity HSMs continued to gain traction at cloud customers, and revenue for these two products more than doubled from the same quarter last year. We are very-pleased with these results which came on the heels of the very strong growth we had delivered in the prior quarter.
This is also the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential revenue growth from the wireless infrastructure market as we benefited from the start of the 5G transition, and our diversified design win position at four of the top five Tier 1 base station OEMs.
In addition to the top five global OEMs, there’s also a very accurate next tier of more regionally focused OEMs who are developing their own 5G base station equipment. We believe that our full suite of production-ready 5G silicon solutions, including the industry’s only merchant baseband processor, provide a very compelling path to market for this set of customers. I’m excited to announce we have now secured design wins for our OCTEON embedded processor and our OCTEON Fusion baseband processor with a new 5G customer in this next tier of base station OEMs. We expect this design to serve ramping toward the end of next fiscal year. We continue to engage with this group of customers and look forward to updating you on our progress.
We remain on track to start shipping basebands to Nokia and processors customized for massive MIMO applications to Samsung later this year.
We believe that OCTEON can continue to improve its position within the large $4 billion market for embedded processors in infrastructure applications. OCTEON has a number of very-compelling advantages, including our process technology platform, multi-core ARM architecture, optimized hardware accelerators, flexible programming model and our ability to customize solutions. Compared to alternative products, our next generation processors, designed on the industry’s most-advanced 5-nanometer process using TSMC’s proven technology platform have become a very attractive solution for customers. We believe that our competitive differentiators will enable us to continue to take share in this large market.
Now, shifting gears to our Ethernet portfolio. We’ve been working closely with our customers to design the next generation of Ethernet products tailored to meet some new requirements being placed on networks by mobility and cloud applications, which are extending the boundaries of the traditional enterprise. This quarter, we announced our latest Ethernet solutions for the emerging world of the borderless enterprise. And the borderless enterprise is not just about the transformation of on-campus corporate environments, such as Marvell’s own infrastructure, but also includes new use cases in the rapidly evolving retail, manufacturing, hospitality, finance and education verticals.
The number of devices connecting to the network is expanding rapidly. And no matter where the users are physically located, enterprise IT organizations are being asked to deliver a secure high bandwidth experience. Increasing amount of cloud access and remote work need switches with more intelligence, visibility, security and bandwidth. And these requirements are driving the next refresh cycle. As such, switches need to apply intelligent processing right at the edge and offload data to inference engines. The data needs to be encrypted and secure end to end with enhanced network visibility for a seamless experience. The adoption of Wi-Fi 6 is increasing the bandwidth requirements of wired networks. Marvell’s unified Prestera Ethernet switch and Alaska PHY solution set is architected from the ground up to manage this complex and evolving environment.

Our advanced telemetry capabilities facilitate network automation and our switches have embedded cryptography based security for Ethernet traffic. Intelligent workload management enables optimized data processing at or near the network access edge, improving the performance of hybrid cloud architectures. Our multi-gig capable switches and PHYs facilitate the transition to 2.5 and 5-gig connectivity, which is essential for Wi-Fi 6 enabled access points and high-performance end devices. Our software development kit enables networking system vendors to easily develop new and differentiated products quickly on our silicon platform.
As you may recall, we refreshed our Ethernet portfolio soon after I joined Marvell in 2016. And that led to a sustained period of growth for our switch and PHY businesses, as we took share with our differentiated products that commanded higher gross margins and outgrew the market. This year’s refresh adds an even more impressive set of capabilities and addresses a larger part of the enterprise market, further expanding the access, core and aggregation layers, and we believe that we will continue to drive share gains.
In our emerging automotive business, we continue to make progress in expanding the customer base for our Ethernet switch and PHY connectivity products. We have recently closed design wins with 8 new customers, adding to the 16 I have discussed in prior calls. We also continue to see a larger opportunity for us in automotive. Leveraging our growing Ethernet position, we are front and center in discussions around future architectures, and have the opportunity to expand into the adjacent compute, security and storage domains within the connected car.
Let me now discuss the outlook for the third fiscal quarter for our networking business. We expect strong growth from the wireless infrastructure and market, driven by multiple customers. We also project growth in the cloud data center market, and we expect our automotive Ethernet products to start shipping in the model year 2021 vehicles, which are starting production now. However, given the softness in the enterprise market driven by COVID-19 and recently telegraphed by multiple customers and peers, not surprisingly, we project demand for our networking products selling into enterprise applications to be weak. The net result is that we expect our overall networking revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2021 to increase sequentially in the mid to high-single-digits on a percentage basis.
Turning now to our storage business.
Storage revenue for the second quarter was $290 million, growing 12% sequentially and 6% year-on-year. Strong growth was driven by the start of a ramp of a customized SSD controller for a do-it-yourself or DIY program and easing of COVID-19 production challenges we and our customers experienced in the first quarter.
Supply chain improvements benefited both our storage controller and Fibre Channel products. Controller demand from nearline 16 terabyte HDDs was particularly strong. The combination of our product cycles and supply recovery drove our outperformance as compared to the drive market where demand was starting to get impacted from COVID-19.
Our pipeline of SSD controller engagements continues to grow, driven by our commitment to deliver the most responsive and best user experience at the lowest power using the most advanced process technology. I’m very-pleased that we have won the next generation of SSD controllers for data center applications at one of our key tier 1 NAND OEMs, extending the multiyear relationship we have with them. This controller features our leadership PCIe Gen5 technology, and we expect to continue to drive long-term growth for our storage business.
Looking to the third quarter, we are expecting very different trends between our storage controller and Fibre Channel business. We project our storage controller business, which addresses both, hard disk drives and solid state drive applications to continue to grow sequentially. We expect this growth from the continuation of a ramp of a custom SSD controller partially offset by weaker drive demand from enterprise datacenters and some edge applications such as retail.

Stores controllers, shipping into cloud applications are also expected to continue to trend up in third quarter. Conversely, in our Fibre Channel business, we project a significant sequential decline in revenue, resulting from COVID-19-related weakness in enterprise server and storage system demand. The weakness in Fibre Channel is expected to offset the growth from storage controllers. And as a result, we project third quarter consolidated storage revenue to be approximately flat on a sequential basis.
In closing, our results continue to validate our strategy to focus on developing the most advanced silicon for data infrastructure. Our portfolio actions have also significantly diversified our end market exposure. And we have a much larger share of revenue today from fast growing 5G wireless and cloud end markets.
In 5G, we have wrapped up an impressive set of design wins, which we expect will drive significant revenue growth for us over a number of years. The product ramps at Samsung and particularly Nokia are largely in front of us. In addition to the strong momentum expected from our own product cycles, we’re also turning increasingly positive on the likelihood of our diversified customer base to gain share in light of recent geopolitical events and market dynamics.
Cloud has only recently become a larger part of our business, crossing over 10% of our total revenue. In this market with long-term secular growth, we have multiple drivers through our OCTEON processor platform for security products, full custom ASICs, merchant and DIY datacenter SSD controllers, and nearline HCE controllers and prints.
In enterprise, while there are near-term headwinds from COVID-19, it is important to keep a longer term perspective that this is a large and diversified worldwide market, spread across a number of industry verticals. The need for secure and intelligent access to bandwidth is not going away, and the number of end points trying to connect to a network are only expanding. We’ve introduced new solutions, specifically designed to address these challenges, and we believe that we can gain share and drive revenue growth from our own product cycles.
In our edge end market, we have barely scratched the surface of the current Ethernet and future compute opportunity in autos, which we believe will become another key driver for long-term revenue growth. We have assembled under one roof, a critical mass of scarce and unique IP with a very flexible and customized engagement model, which is proving very attractive to our customers. We’re accelerating our adoption of advanced process technology, which has already started to pay dividends in the form of design wins and new sockets and customers.
Our borderless enterprise and ASIC announcements received strong validation from the industry, and we have seen an increase in inbound requests for collaboration from customers, as they become more aware of the depth and breadth of technology at Marvell.
We believe that we have built a business for the long haul and are confident in driving revenue growth and managing through any transitional challenges in some of our end markets. We continue to invest in technology, while reducing overall operating expenses by driving higher levels of efficiency with our platform. This operational excellence enhances our ability to deliver operating leverage and drive earnings growth.
With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jean for more detail on our recent results and outlook.
Jean Hu
Thanks Matt and good afternoon, everyone. I’ll start with a review of our financial results for the second quarter and then provide our current outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2021.
Revenue in the second quarter was $727 million, above middle point of our guidance. Networking represents 56% of our revenue in the second quarter with storage contributing 40%. Revenue from other accounted for 4% of revenue, declining 25% sequentially and 41% year-on-year. As a reminder, this business consists of product we have stopped investing in. So, we expect they will continue to decline over time. Our guidance for the third quarter anticipated a small sequential decline in revenue from these products.

GAAP gross margin was 49.4%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 63.3% of revenue, better than expectations, reflecting the hard work from our operations team to drive operational efficiency to improve our product costs. GAAP operating expenses were $511 million, and they include the cost of share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition and divestiture related costs as well as the impairment and other related restructuring charges as a result of the changing scope of the similar processing program Matt discussed earlier in the call.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $297 million, $3 million lower than expected, primarily because of our continued focus on OpEx management. GAAP operating loss was $151 million. Non-GAAP operating profit was $163 million or 22.4% of revenue. For the second quarter, GAAP loss per diluted share was $0.24. Non-GAAP income per diluted share was $0.21, above the midpoint of the guidance.
Now, turning to our balance sheet. During the quarter, cash flow from operations was $226 million. Our team continues to drive the improvement of working capital metrics in the second quarter. We improved our days of sales outstanding to 61 days and days of inventory to 90 days. We returned $40 million to shareholders through dividend payments. We have temporarily suspended our share repurchase program as we believe it’s prudent to further strengthen our liquidity and increase our cash balance during the uncertain environment. We’ll continue to evaluate the business conditions to decide when to restart share repurchase program.
We exited the quarter with $832 million in cash and short-term investments, an increase of $164 million from the prior quarter. We continue to have $500 million of liquidity available from our undrawn revolver.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 0.8 times on a trailing 12-month basis. As of 4th of August 2020, the $450 million term loan is still within 12 months and has been classified as a short-term debt on the balance sheet. We expect our business to continue to generate a strong cash flow, and we intend to repay this amount with the cash flow from operations.
I’m pleased that revenue growth combined with our strong business model and operating expense discipline, continue to drive improvement in operating results and strengthening our balance sheet.
Now, moving on to our current outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2021. Please note that compared to second quarter results, our outlook for operating expenses reflect the significant improvement Matt discussed earlier from the successful integration of Aquantia and Avera, continued operational discipline and the change in scope of the ARM server project.
As a reminder, our operating expenses can vary quarter-to-quarter, affected by factors such as the number of tape-out within a particular quarter. And these tape-outs are becoming more expensive in newer process geometry. The cadence of an NRE payment, which are primarily treated as contra OpEx can also add variability. And we now have a higher level of NRE following the acquisition of Avera with their customer ASIC model. Due to the typical seasonality in payroll taxes, our OpEx in the first fiscal quarter tends to increase sequentially, and this effect then dissipates in the rest of the fiscal year.
Here is the specific guidance for the third quarter. We are forecasting revenue to be in the range of $750 million, plus or minus 5%. We anticipate our GAAP gross margin will be approximately 51.4%, and the non-GAAP gross margin will be approximately 63%. We project our GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $368 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $280 million. We expect net interest expense to be approximately $15 million and expect non-GAAP tax rate of 5%. As a result, we anticipate GAAP results in the range of a loss of $0.04 per diluted share on the low end to an income of $0.04 per diluted share on the high end. We expect non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $0.22 to $0.28.

Operator, please open the line and announce the Q&A instructions. Thanks.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Blayne Curtis with Barclays.
Blayne Curtis
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Nice results, obviously, given the backdrop in enterprise. Matt, I was just kind of curious, you mentioned as you were walking through, you spent a lot of time on ASICs. You mentioned a new design win with hyperscaler. I don’t know if you could give any color with that, but maybe just thinking broader, if you can kind of just give us a flavor as to the types of wins that you mentioned you are picking up in types of segments I think both across wireless and networking, that would be helpful.
Matt Murphy
So, on the hyperscale win, as I said, we’re pretty excited about that. I think bringing the Avera team into Marvell has created a much more relevant portfolio and broader portfolio for all the hyperscale accounts, and I think it was a great testament to the capability of the team to actually break into a new one. As you know, due to the nature of the ASIC business, these are highly confidential type of engagement