Marvell Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MRVL) Q1 2022 Earnings Conference Call June  7, 2021  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Ashish Saran - VP of IR
Matt Murphy - President and CEO
Jean Hu - CFO
Conference Call Participants
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO Capital Markets
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo Securities
Quinn Bolton - Needham & Company
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC Nikko
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler
Operator
Good afternoon, and welcome to the Marvell Technologies Fiscal First Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask question. Please note that, this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Ashish Saran, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
Ashish Saran
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Marvell's first quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings call. Joining me today are Matt Murphy, Marvell's President and CEO; and Jean Hu, our CFO.
I would like to remind everyone that certain comments made today may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Please review the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our earnings press release, which we filed with the SEC today and posted on our website as well as our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements.
During our call today, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available on our website in the Investor Relations section. We closed the acquisition of Inphi on April 20, 2021. Therefore, the results we reported today for the first quarter of fiscal 2022 include the results from the Inphi business for 10 days of the fiscal quarter. Revenue from the acquired Inphi business is reported within our networking product group.
To provide a direct comparison to the first fiscal quarter business outlook we provided in our earnings call on March 3, we have provided a table in our earnings press release, which breaks out Marvell standalone non-GAAP results for the first quarter, excluding partial quarter results from the acquired Inphi business. We are providing Marvell's standalone non-GAAP results only on a one-time basis.
As a reminder, there are no GAAP results for standalone Marvell. Matt and Jean's first quarter commentary will primarily focus on the non-GAAP results from the standalone Marvell business as it relates to the guidance we provided on our March 3 call understated otherwise.
Please note that, the financial outlook for the second quarter of fiscal year 2022 includes expected results from the acquired Inphi business for the full quarter. On the subject of revenue reporting, as you know, we currently report revenue in three broad product groups: networking, storage and other.
However, as you may recall, during our Investor Day presentations, we also describe our addressable opportunities by end market. This market focus will provide more information and transparency about the key growth drivers of our business and was received positively by the investment community. We are now taking steps to align our external revenue reporting to our end markets. We believe this will provide investors with a better and more granular understanding of our business.
Accordingly, we will discontinue reporting revenue by product group and instead, we will report revenue from the following five end markets: data center, carrier, enterprise networking, auto industrial and consumer. Please note, we will implement this change starting next quarter, when we report results for our second quarter of fiscal 2022.
In that earnings release, we will report revenue by end market for the second quarter and provide historical end market revenue data for the preceding seven quarters. Mass discussion of business results and expectations are also transitioned to this end market view. In our second quarter earnings results, on a one-time basis, we will provide revenue results under both the current product group process and the new end market process.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Matt for his comments on our performance. Matt?
Matt Murphy
Thanks, Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with a summary of our first quarter GAAP results for the combined company. Revenue for the combined company was $832 million. GAAP gross margin was 50.2% and loss per diluted share was $0.13.
I'm now going to review standalone Marvell non-GAAP results, excluding those of Inphi. We began fiscal 2022 on a strong note, delivering solid results in the first quarter, driven by the strength of our core businesses and continued operational excellence.
Marvell standalone revenue for the first quarter was $810 million, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance. Revenue grew 17% year-on-year, driven by robust growth in both our networking and storage businesses.
Higher revenue, coupled with stronger gross margin and lower operating expenses, drove non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.02 above the midpoint of guidance to $0.29. Non-GAAP EPS grew 61% year-on-year, demonstrating the significant operating leverage in our business model.
I'm pleased that Marvell delivered the fourth straight quarter of double-digit year-on-year revenue growth, despite industry-wide supply constraints that have tightened considerably over the same time period.
In fact, our year-on-year growth rate accelerated in the first quarter on strong and growing demand across all our end markets, and I'm pleased that our operations team rose to the challenge in a difficult environment. But we have more work to do.
Majority of our products are proprietary and sole-sourced and demand for our solutions continues to grow. We need to support our customers with a flexible supply chain capable of delivering to upside demand within a reasonable lead time, something that has not been feasible this year.
To further improve our supply, Chris Koopmans, who has played an instrumental role in Marvell's ongoing transformation, has been appointed as our Chief Operations Officer to lead our global operations and supply chain organization, in addition to his current role leading marketing and business operations. Chris is leveraging his deep understanding of our markets and customers to prioritize and align supply to our key growth initiatives.
We are extending our planning horizons, strengthening strategic supplier partnerships and using our balance sheet where appropriate, to build more flexibility. Our suppliers value Marvell's focus on data infrastructure as a source of sustainable growth, driven by favorable secular trends compared to other cyclical end markets. And as a result, they are excited to partner with us.
Looking to the second half of this fiscal year, we are confident that we have secured sufficient supply to enable accelerating year-on-year revenue growth for standalone Marvell, above that of the first half. We expect supply to further improve next fiscal year. In a few moments, I'll discuss Inphi's business, where we also expect strong revenue growth throughout the year.
Moving on to our merger with Inphi and related organizational changes. We received regulatory approval to merge with Inphi in April, earlier than originally anticipated and began integrating the talented Inphi team. We have emerged from this transaction as a U.S. Corporation, which we believe better positions the combined company for long-term success.
Reflecting the larger scale and broader scope of Marvell, several key Inphi executives have joined my direct staff. Loi Nguyen and Nariman Yousefi will manage the Inphi businesses and have also increased their scope to include additional Marvell businesses.
Lawrence Tse, Inphi's central engineering leader, will manage Marvell's analog and mixed signal organization. In addition, Raghib Hussain has taken on a broader elevated role as President, Products and Technologies, to drive strategy alignment and growth across the company.
Similar to our prior acquisitions, we expect the infusion of Inphi talent will add scale and further strengthen the capabilities of the combined company. We have built a world-class management team with deep technical expertise, vast industry experience and a proven track record in driving growth and value creation.
Let me move on now to discussing our two businesses in more detail. Networking. First, for Marvell standalone networking, revenue grew during the first - revenue during the first quarter was $476 million, consistent with our outlook for strong growth.
On a sequential basis, revenue grew 9%, underpinned by growth in all key product lines with the exception of 5G ASICs. However, overall 5G revenue continued to grow, marking our seventh straight consecutive quarter of growth. Year-on-year growth was a very robust 21% in networking, with solid contributions from multiple end markets. In 5G, growth was driven by standard and semi-custom product shipments to Samsung and Nokia, partially offset by a decline in ASICs as deployments in China paused.
In cloud networking, we continue to benefit from strong customer demand for our SmartNIC DPUs. In automotive, we are growing rapidly with our Ethernet product shipping into multiple model year 2021 vehicles.
Our Enterprise Networking business also delivered solid results, extending the double-digit growth trend established last year, despite a soft end market. This performance is a result of our expanding market position, driven by our refreshed Ethernet switches and multi-gigabit PHYs. To the extent, the enterprise spending recovers later this year, that would be another tailwind to our business.
Not only are we winning and ramping in the access, aggregation and core switching markets, we are also making inroads in the data center with our feature-rich and scalable multi-terabit family of switches.
As a reminder, these products leverage a modular architecture to deliver multiple capacity points, from 3.2 terabits per second to 12.8 terabits for a broad range of data center applications. We have been winning new sockets and expect these design wins to start contributing meaningfully higher levels of revenue next fiscal year.
Let me now discuss the outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2022 for our Networking business. This outlook includes revenue from Inphi's complete electro-optics platform comprised of their industry-leading PAM and coherent DSPs, high-performance broadband analog drivers and TIAs, highly integrated silicon photonics and data center interconnect modules. For the second quarter, we anticipate networking revenue to grow just over 70% year-on-year.
Let me walk you through the growth expectations from the Marvell and Inphi businesses implicit in this guidance. We expect Marvell's standalone networking to drive strong year-on-year revenue growth in the high teens on a percentage basis and be up slightly on a sequential basis.
Similar to the prior quarter, we expect broad growth from multiple products, offset by a pause in China 5G. This outlook reflects ongoing supply constraints, which have more - been more acute for our networking products. However, as I discussed earlier, we believe we have line of sight to supply improvements later this year and next year to support our growth plans.
As we look forward, we expect a strong second half ramp compared to the first half in standalone Marvell's networking business, including an acceleration in our 5G business from both our own product ramps and an increase in 5G adoption in the U.S. and other regions.
From the acquired Inphi business, we expect approximately $215 million in revenue in our second fiscal quarter. I am very pleased that at this level of revenue, we expect the Inphi business will be accretive to our non-GAAP earnings in the first full quarter as a combined company. We expect this business to drive strong growth above Marvell's growth rate, benefiting from the demand for high-speed connectivity inside and between data centers and in the carrier market.
Let me briefly discuss Inphi's data center growth drivers. Inside data centers, as demand for bandwidth continues to increase, a generational shift is underway from traditional NRZ signaling to more advanced Pulse Amplitude Modulation, or PAM, which enables a significant increase in bandwidth. This is one of the biggest changes in data center connectivity, and Inphi is leading this industry transition.
Inphi is the largest provider of PAM4 DSPs to the optical connectivity market, having shipped millions of devices. As the market continues to transition to higher speeds, 400-gig adoption has been accelerating. And last year, we started sampling our next-generation 800-gig solution, which is seeing strong traction with customers.
In collaboration with Microsoft, Inphi pioneered pluggable transceiver technology to directly interconnect regional cloud data centers at lower cost, complexity and power compared to traditional optical transport solutions.
The first product, COLORZ use PAM4 technology to enable 100-gig per wavelength, which could be multiplexed to support up to 4 terabits per second of bandwidth over a single fiber for data center interconnect or DCI applications. This product has been shipping in volume and established Inphi's leadership in this category.
Building on the success of COLORZ, which was deployed primarily by one hyperscaler last year, Inphi introduced COLORZ II, the industry's first pluggable transceiver compatible with the 400ZR industry standard, which enables 400-gig per wavelength using coherent technology. We expect to maintain our leadership position in the DCI market and project that COLORZ II deployments will start this year.
With an industry standard now in place, we see multiple hyperscalers and additional customers adopting pluggable ZR technology, which creates a significantly larger revenue opportunity for our DCI platform.
Turning now to our storage business. Storage revenue for the first quarter was $303 million, growing 17% year-on-year and declining 7% sequentially. Results were better than our expectations as we benefited from stronger demand for SSD controllers. The stellar year-on-year results were driven by ramps in our custom DIY SSD controller programs and ongoing growth in cloud demand for nearline drives, which benefited from - benefited our HDD controllers and pre-amplifiers. The sequential decline was primarily due to our Fiber Channel business.
Looking to the second quarter of fiscal 2022, we expect storage to deliver another strong performance driven by the nearline HDD and data center SSD markets. We are projecting revenue to grow year-on-year in the mid-teens and in the double-digits sequentially on a percentage basis. Our recent results and expectations for ongoing growth reflect the significant transformation of our storage business.
In our HDD business, data center has become the largest revenue contributor relative to other markets. Our preamplifier business is now ramped up to an annualized run rate of over $50 million, and we believe that we can more than double this run rate.
We are continuing to step up the technology cadence for our SSD controllers, and we recently introduced the industry's first PCIe Gen5 SSD controller family designed to address the data movement and security challenges in cloud infrastructure. We are excited to collaborate directly with hyperscalers and NAND vendors to bring this leading solution to market.
In addition, I'm pleased to announce that a key NAND OEM has chosen to partner with Marvell to develop custom PCIe Gen5 and Gen6 SSD controllers for their enterprise and cloud solutions. The Gen6 product will be built on our 5-nanometer process.
In the storage market, this is a quantum leap and process node cadence and is a testament to Marvell's advanced technology platform. We expect to leverage the leading-edge IP we are developing to be deployed in additional advanced node storage solutions. Our strategy to refocus this business on the data center market has been a huge success. Data center has grown to over 60% of storage revenue from less than 20% in fiscal 2017.
In closing, we had a great start to fiscal 2022, and I'm very excited about the growth prospects in front of us as a combined company. When we announced the acquisition of Inphi, we increased our long-term target model for revenue growth to 12% to 16% annually.
I'm pleased that our recent results and near-term expectations are, in fact, currently trending above the high end of this target range. This is primarily due to our own product cycles, combined with sustainable, secular growth trends in our data infrastructure markets.
The acquisition of Inphi has increased our exposure to the data center, which is our largest end market. And within that, cloud is the largest growth opportunity across Marvell, significantly bigger than our 5G opportunity. Inphi has already established a strong position within cloud, addressing an opportunity growing at a 60% plus CAGR. The Marvell organic opportunity in cloud is also substantial, which we are addressing with our merchant, semi-custom and flexible ASIC model for compute, networking, acceleration, security and storage applications.
At our Analyst Day last year, we discussed this opportunity growing at an expected 19% CAGR to over $5 billion by calendar 2023. The adoption of ARM processors and servers continues to gain traction, and this further increases our cloud opportunity. We expect cloud revenue for the combined company to grow rapidly.
As Marvell's 5-nanometer products come to market, we expect a substantial step-up in our cloud revenue. I'm very pleased to report that we have been recently awarded a number of significant design wins, leveraging our advanced technology platform. Respecting customer confidentiality, we will not be in a position to discuss any specific win. They are with multiple customers across a variety of applications and business models. We expect these products to start ramping into production in calendar 2023, achieving peak revenue in the calendar 2024 to 2025 timeframe.
As I approach my five-year anniversary at Marvell, I've never felt stronger about our growth prospects, and I'm grateful to all our employees who have worked hard to transform the company to position us for what we believe will be a very exciting future.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Jean for more detail on our recent results and outlook.
Jean Hu
Thanks, Matt. Good afternoon, everyone.
I'll start with our GAAP results for the first quarter for the combined company, followed by Marvell's standalone non-GAAP performance and conclude with our outlook.
Please note, our GAAP financials include 10 days of results from the Inphi business and the impact of purchase price comping items, share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, vehicle segment and acquisition related costs. Revenue was $832 million. GAAP gross margin was 50.2%. GAAP operating expenses were $500 million. GAAP operating loss was $82 million. GAAP loss per diluted share was $0.13.
Turning to the balance sheet. Inventory at the end of the first quarter was $538 million, which include the impact of setting up Inphi's inventory by $187 million due to purchase price accounting. We amortized the $40 million of this step-up into cost of goods sold in the first quarter, and we anticipate amortizing the remaining balance by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2022.
During the quarter, we paid $140 million in cash for fees related to the Inphi transaction. Excluding those one-time payments, our cash flow generation from operations would have been $100 million. As a reminder, our cash flow generation has seasonality and tend to be lower in our first fiscal quarter due to the payment for annual cash bonus to employees.
In the first quarter, we distributed $41 million to shareholders in dividends. We accept the quarter with $523 million in cash and short-term investments. Our long-term debt was $4.7 billion and currently carries the blended interest rate of approximately 2.5%. Our gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 3.9, and net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 3.4, based on combined pro forma EBITDA.
We continue to have a strong investment-grade credit profile. Our capital allocation priorities over the next 12 months are to maintain our current dividend level, and utilize our free cash flow to pay down debt used for the acquisition for Inphi. We believe we can drive strong revenue growth and free cash flow generation to quickly achieve our target ratio of 2 times gross debt-to-EBITDA.
I'll now move on to standalone Marvell non-GAAP results. As Ashish had noted earlier, we are providing standalone Marvell results on a onetime basis this quarter because our previously provided financial outlook for the first quarter excluded any impact of the Inphi acquisition.
Reconciliation of our standalone and combined performance as well as GAAP to non-GAAP results available in our press release. Standalone Marvell revenue in the first quarter was $810 million, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance. Networking represented 60% of our revenue with storage contributing 36%. Revenue from other accounted for 4%.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 64.3%, above our guidance and the 150-basis point improvement from a year ago, primarily due to better product mix and our team's continued effort to drive operational excellence. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $297 million as we continue to tightly manage our expenses while investing for growth.
Non-GAAP operating margin was 27.7%, an 810-basis point increase from a year ago, demonstrating the strong operating leverage in our business model. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $0.29, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance range by $0.02 and is up more than 60% year-over-year.
Let me now comment on our plan for operating expenses going forward. After closing the Inphi acquisition, the starting pro forma operating expense trend rate for the combined company was approximately $375 million per quarter. We expect our operating expenses to grow annually in the range of 4% to 5% as we continue to invest to support our long-term growth, including incremental R&D spending for Inphi. However, we expect to more than offset this operating expense growth through deal-related synergies.
We expect total cost of synergies for $125 million from the Inphi acquisition with approximately $100 million coming from operating expenses. The midpoint of our second quarter OpEx guidance of $372.5 million includes $10 million of synergy achievement on a run rate basis. We expect to achieve half of our targeted OpEx synergy exiting fiscal 2022 and the full synergy realization by the third quarter of fiscal 2023. We'll continue to be disciplined in allocating resources and expect to drive revenue growth significantly higher than OpEx growth to deliver strong earnings expansion.
The remaining $25 million of cost synergies will come from cost goods sold, which we expect to start to take effect in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 and be fully realized by the third quarter of the same year. Our team has a strong track record of integration execution from prior acquisitions. I'm very confident about our synergy achievement plan.
Now, turning to our guidance for the second quarter of fiscal 2022, which included a full quarter of Inphi. We are forecasting revenue to be in the range of $1.065 billion, plus or minus 3%. At the middle point of this outlook, we expect approximately $250 million of revenue contribution from the Inphi business.
As Matt mentioned earlier, at this level of revenue, we expect the Inphi business will be accretive to our non-GAAP earnings. We expect our GAAP gross margin in the range of 34.8% to 37.5%. We project our non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 64%.
In a tight supply environment, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin in the near future to remain around this level, subject to product mix change in any given quarter. We project our GAAP operating expense to be in the range of $633 million to $643 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP operating expenses to be in the range of $370 million to $375 million.
Following the Inphi acquisition, the company domicile changed from Bermuda to Delaware. Based on tax deductions and credits we have, we expect our non-GAAP tax rate to remain at 5% for the remainder of the fiscal year. And the current tax laws, we expect our non-GAAP tax rate to increase by approximately 100 basis points each year for the next couple of years.
We expect other expenses will be approximately $34.5 million, which include interest expense of $33 million. We expect our basic weighted average shares outstanding will be 822 million and our diluted weighted average share outstanding will be $835 million. As a result, we anticipate GAAP loss per share to be $0.37, plus or minus $0.04. We expect non-GAAP income per diluted share to be $0.31, plus or minus $0.03.
Operator, please open the line and announce Q&A instructions. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question today will come from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
John Pitzer
Yes. Good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the solid results. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Matt, I'm just sort of curious, when you look at sort of this quarter and the guide, can you help us better understand relative to your ability to capture supply? The deficiencies grow this quarter, you did a nice job in the core networking business growing almost 9% sequentially, but I'm trying to get a sense as to whether or not demand continues to outstrip supply. And if you could help us understand, is this a wafer issue? Or are there other issues? And as you think about resolving them in the back half of the year, why so confident?
Matt Murphy
Yes. Great, John. Thanks for the question. Yes, we're very happy with the results in networking. I mean, as you pointed out, that was a sequential number. So clearly, business has been very, very good for us in networking. And certainly, year-over-year, to do 20%-plus is great.
The demand, John, continues in Q2 and beyond. We're continuing to work on improving the supply on our networking products. As it turns out, and as you've probably seen, the complexity on our networking business in terms of the manufacturing, cycle time supply chain is much more complex and challenging than on the storage side. So we've been able to meet some more of the upsides on storage than we have networking.
But no, John, business continues to be strong. We do have line of sight to the supply improving in the second half, which is encouraging. And that's why we're continuing to be very bullish about the outlook for our overall networking business because the demand is clearly there, and we've now got supply coming online in the back half as well as into next year. So things are improving for sure.
John Pitzer
Thank you.
Operator
And our next question will come from Vivek Arya with Bank of America Securities. Please go ahead.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. Matt, I had one more and to kind of extend that question into the second half visibility from two aspects. One is the supply aspect, that is supply coming online gradually. Or are you planning to see perhaps a faster improvement on the supply side? And the other perspective on this is how much of your second half growth - fiscal year growth is dependent on enterprise and China 5G recovery, which have tended to be quite volatile?
Matt Murphy
Sure, Vivek. Yes. I think, look, in this environment, in general, supply is coming in, not in large chunks. Although, I would say, given the ramp we had been planning for some time, in our case, we do see more significant amount of supply coming in, in the second half.
So that will improve, and we have visibility of that, both on the wafer side as well as on the back-end side. And at the same time, as we ramp our supply position, as I mentioned to John, the demand side continues to outstrip our ability to supply at all, but we're making good progress there.
On your second question, in both cases, both in enterprise as well as China 5G, those are not comprehended to have market-related comebacks in that time frame. On enterprise, as you've seen, I mean, we've been growing that business well above double-digit for some time, including in our Q1, and we do anticipate that to continue.
Now that's mostly on the back of our own product cycles, okay? And we've been very successful, I think, in our enterprise and campus switching, also in our PHY business. And so that continues. So that's - and by the way, and what's been viewed as a very soft market, both by the OEMs as well as other semiconductor peers. So if that end market improves with return to work and vaccinations improving, that would be a pretty significant tailwind on our business.
As it relates to 5G in China, maybe just to kind of frame it in the bigger picture, I think, first, our own team internally, I want to give them credit, they did a good job for - in the first half, telling us last year that the mapping out the digestion phase, which is what's happened, so that's actually been in line with our plan.
And we're not necessarily counting on a big recovery in that in the second half. If it does, that would be great. But just to frame it, Vivek, in the bigger picture, our 5G business and exposure in China is actually less than 20% of our overall 5G business, both now and even going forward.
And in fact, it probably slowly becomes a smaller percentage over time as our new OEMs ramp up and some of these other initiatives kick in. So again, either of those two came back very strong, that would also be a tailwind on our business.
Vivek Arya
Thanks, Matt.
Operator
And our next question will come from Timothy Arcuri with UBS. Please go ahead.
Timothy Arcuri
Thanks a lot. Matt, I know it's probably early to ask this question, but can you give us a sense of sort of what kind of synergies you might see on the revenue side? I know you're not putting any of those into the model, but can you talk about that? And then I guess also, Jean, I was just wondering if you can talk about what the normalized gross margin is. I know you're guiding to 64%, but it sounds like that's still being hampered by some constraints. So I'm kind of wondering what is the ri