Marvell Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MRVL) Q3 2022 Earnings Conference Call December  2, 2021  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Ashish Saran - VP of IR
Matt Murphy - President and CEO
Jean Hu - CFO
Conference Call Participants
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Tore Svanberg - Stifel
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
C.J. Muse - Evercore
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC Nikko Securities
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna
Quinn Bolton - Needham
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Operator
Good afternoon, and welcome to the Marvell Technologies Fiscal Third Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Ashish Saran, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Ashish Saran
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Marvell’s third quarter fiscal year 2022 earnings call. Joining me today are Matt Murphy, Marvell's President and CEO; and Jean Hu, our CFO.
I would like to remind everyone that certain comments made today may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management’s current expectations. Please review the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our earnings press release, which we filed with the SEC today and posted on our website, as well as our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements.
During our call today, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available in the Investor Relations section of our website.
We closed the acquisition of Innovium on October 5, 2021. Therefore, the results we reported today for the third quarter of fiscal 2022 include the results from the Innovium business for 25 days of the fiscal quarter. Revenue from the acquired Innovium business is reported entirely within our data center end market.
Please note that the guidance we have provided for the third quarter of fiscal 2022 on August 26, 2021, has not included in any expectations or results from the acquired Innovium. The financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 we provided today includes expected results from the acquired Innovium business for the fourth quarter.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Matt for his comments on our performance. Matt?
Matt Murphy
Thanks, Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone.
I'll start with a summary of our third quarter GAAP results. Revenue was $1.21 billion, which was above the high end of our guidance and represents another record achievement for Marvell. GAAP Gross margin was 48.5%, GAAP operating loss was $33 million, and loss per diluted share was $0.08. Revenue grew 13% sequentially and 61% year-over-year, an acceleration from the first half of this fiscal year.
We saw great momentum in all five of our end markets, with revenue growing both sequentially and year-on-year. Our data center, carrier, enterprise networking, and auto industrial end markets all achieved record revenue and performed above guidance. Excellent operational and financial execution resulted in revenue 6% above the midpoint of our guidance.
Our operations team continues to do a great job in sourcing incremental supply, and we are starting to see the fruits of their labor. Supply was better than expected in the third quarter, and we expect continued improvements as we move into the fourth quarter and next year. The additional capacity has better positioned us to catch up to the growth in demand, which so far has outpaced increases in supply.
Moving on to our non-GAAP results for the quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin was a record 65.1%, and we delivered $418 million in non-GAAP operating income. Non-GAAP operating margin was also a record at 34.5%. Higher revenue, coupled with stronger gross margin drove non-GAAP earnings per share to $0.43, 13% above the midpoint of guidance growing 72% year-over-year, which represents phenomenal growth in earnings. These are tremendous accomplishments, and I am very proud of the outstanding execution by our entire Marvell team in driving such strong results.
Let me now move on to discussing our five end markets, starting with data center. In our data center end market, revenue for the third quarter was $500 million, growing 15% sequentially and 109% year-over-year, exceeding our guidance. Both the standalone Marvell business and the acquired Inphi business delivered strong growth, driven by robust demand from cloud customers.
I would note that our on-premise data center business also grew sequentially and year-over-year. Data center is our most diverse end market with multiple product lines contributing to sequential revenue growth. These include 200-gig and 400-gig PAM4 electro-optics, data center interconnect ZR modules, SSD and HDD controllers, cloud-optimized SoCs, and Ethernet switches.
In addition to strong end-market demand, the majority of these product lines are also benefiting from the start of new product ramps, which we expect will continue to drive sustained growth. As an example, in our SSD business, we benefited from a strong ramp of DIY controllers directly to a Tier 1 cloud customer.
Remember, you heard at Investor Day, Marvell has been winning a large number of incremental cloud optimized silicon designs, and these are now in development. In addition, the design win funnel and level of activity on cloud optimized silicon engagements continues to accelerate, and we have recently won another socket with our storage accelerator.
At our Investor Day, we discussed this new $500 million market for our storage business and cloud storage accelerators and disclosed our first design win with the cloud customer. Now, a key storage partner, KIOXIA, recently announced production availability of their NVMe over Fabric SSDs, which will also use our storage accelerators.
These SSDs are for Ethernet Bunch of Flash systems designed for applications such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and high-performance computing. The KIOXIA SSDs connect to the network fabric natively using Ethernet by integrating a Marvell storage accelerator, which converts NVMe into 25 gigabit Ethernet. We are excited to see this new opportunity take shape with multiple customers starting to adopt our storage accelerators.
Turning now to Innovium. During the quarter, we closed the acquisition, adding their cloud optimized switches to our broad data center portfolio. We're pleased that company’s Co-founder and CTO, Puneet Agarwal, and the R&D team have become a part of Marvell. We are confident that our combined switch business -- businesses are now well positioned to be a strong provider of Ethernet switches to data centers, and we see an incredible opportunity ahead for Marvell in this high-growth market.
We expect the acquisition of Innovium will result in $150 million in incremental revenue next fiscal year as we ramp switches into a large Tier 1 cloud customer they had won prior to the acquisition. We are also looking forward to supporting additional cloud customers such as LinkedIn, who are deploying Innovium’s Teralynx-based switches in production across multiple data centers with the SONiC network OS.
SONiC is an open network operating system, which provides cloud customers with more choice and interoperability as well as the ability to scale. We recently announced our commitment to supporting SONiC across both our Prestera and Teralynx products.
Moving on to our expectations for revenue from our data center end market in our fourth fiscal quarter. Similar to the third quarter, we are expecting another strong performance led by cloud customers across a broad range of products. We expect data center revenue to more than double from a year ago, and we project sequential growth in the double digits on a percentage basis in the fourth quarter. We are pleased with the strength we are seeing from the cloud end market, which we expect will remain a strong driver of sustained growth for Marvell.
Looking out further in time, we are also excited by the immense potential for another phase of growth as large-scale virtual environments such as Facebook is doing with their metaverse start to gain traction. For simplicity, while I will use the metaverse as a general descriptor for this discussion, we expect many different implementations of virtual environments enabled by a broad set of companies and ecosystems.
Regardless of the form these environments take, the data sets will be exponentially larger compared to the current Internet, which is largely two-dimensional and latency will need to be extremely low to realistically simulate a real-world environment. As a result, we expect the metaverse will significantly accelerate a number of key trends, which are already occurring in the cloud today, including the need to store huge amounts of data in a secure environment, connected by high-speed, electro-optic links to custom compute engines.
This next level of massive scaling makes the metaverse an even stronger candidate for cloud optimized silicon solutions that Marvell is currently enabling. This meshes perfectly with the core competencies we have already developed across compute, storage, security, networking, high-speed electro-optics and customization, which are driving our current success. And these are equally applicable to the variety of virtual environments, which we will develop over time.
The metaverse also has the potential to be a killer app for 5G, another area of strength for Marvell. Multiple cloud customers have already engaged with us, as they start designing the architecture of their next generation of data infrastructure to enable a significantly richer set of virtual applications and experiences.
Turning now to our carrier infrastructure end market. Revenue for the third quarter was $215 million, growing 9% sequentially and 28% year-over-year, exceeding our guidance. Growth was driven by our 5G products ramping at multiple customers. We are also able to improve supply for our wired business to enable sequential growth.
Looking at the fourth quarter, we expect a strong ramp in our 5G business of approximately 30% sequentially. And as a result, we project our combined carrier infrastructure revenue across our wireless and wired end sequentially in the low-teens on a percentage basis, while year-on-year growth is expected to accelerate to over 40%.
It's exciting to see the step-up in our 5G business, and we expect significant additional growth over the next several years as 5G adoption continues to grow around the globe, combined with Marvell content gains from designs we have won, but not yet begun to ramp.
Moving on to our enterprise networking end market. Revenue for the third quarter was $247 million, growing 11% sequentially and 56% year-over-year, with the majority of the growth coming from standalone Marvell products. This performance was significantly better than our expectations as our operations team did an excellent job securing additional supply to better address the increase in demand for our products.
From a product perspective, in the third quarter, the continuation of strong year-on-year growth was driven primarily by Marvell's Ethernet networking portfolio. We have been gaining share and benefiting from the very deliberate investments we have made in our enterprise Ethernet switch platform as well as the combined Marvell and the Quantify portfolio. In addition, our content has been growing driven by increase in multi-gig Ethernet adoption.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter for our enterprise networking end market, we project revenue sequentially to be up in the low to mid-single digits on a percentage basis and year-over-year growth is expected to remain very strong at approximately 60%. We expect this strong growth to be driven by continued share gains from Marvell products combined with ongoing recovery in the enterprise networking end market.
Turning to our automotive and industrial end market, which is served primarily by stand-alone Marvell businesses. Revenue for the third quarter was $67 million, growing 16% sequentially and 114% year-over-year, driven by ongoing ramps in our auto business. I'm pleased to report that our team has now driven our auto business to over $140 million annualized revenue run rate in the third quarter, ahead of our prior expectations.
We are benefiting from a faster pace of adoption of our Ethernet solutions by auto OEMs, who are prioritizing the production of their latest models, which tend to have higher semiconductor content. We are confident that we are well on our way to driving a multi-hundred million dollar revenue stream from our -- auto Ethernet business over the next few years.
Looking beyond connectivity, our next multibillion-dollar market opportunity for Marvell is in automotive compute. A future of technology in cars is all about electrification and intelligence with embedded security and onboard storage in a fully networked environment.
Similar to the rise of optimized silicon and cloud, automotive OEMs are realizing that to differentiate their products and deliver the most value to their customers, they need unique technology and IP to be embedded in compute silicon optimized to their specific platforms.
You don't need to look too far to see evidence for the sea change. Recent industry commentary, including from Ford and Volkswagen, talks about their focus on developing internal silicon design expertise, desire to customize off-the-shelf compute and their intentions to design and develop their own shifts for autonomous vehicles. Similar to our successful strategy of partnering with hyperscale customers for cloud-optimized silicon, we are confident that our co-development business model and rich IP portfolio is equally attractive to automotive OEMs.
In this model, the design is done in true partnership with the customer focusing on the portions proprietary to their platform and Marvell bringing our own unique compute, security, Ethernet networking and storage silicon IP to the table. The end solution is a semi-custom design, which represents the best of both worlds, allowing our customers to achieve their ambitions and retain control of their roadmap.
In doing so, they can not only preserve their differentiation with a faster time to market, but it will also enable a lower level of investment, thanks to Marvell. We see compute becoming an increasingly important part of our growing automotive business, adding to our very successful Ethernet connectivity solutions. Reflecting this broadening of our portfolio, I'm very pleased to introduce Marvell's new brand for Automotive Solutions, Brightlane, which includes our gigabit and multi-gigabit Ethernet switches and PHYs for connectivity and our OCTEON processors for compute.
At our Investor Day, we had discussed our first major auto compute win based on our OCTEON Brightlane platform. The semi-custom design is now in development. We are seeing a significant increase in compute related activity with additional auto OEMs, both traditional and new market entrants. And I look forward to updating you on our progress in this exciting new long-term growth pillar for Marvell.
Turning to the outlook for the fourth fiscal quarter for our auto and industrial end market. We expect strong revenue growth to continue. We project sequential growth in the double digits on a percentage basis and year-over-year growth to remain above 100%. Moving on to our consumer end market. Revenue for the third quarter was $183 million, growing 10% sequentially and 20% year-over-year.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we expect revenue to grow sequentially in the low single digits on a percentage basis and year-on-year growth in the double digits on a percentage basis. We are benefiting from strong growth driven by our SSD controllers that we have targeted a differentiated sticky, long-lived and high ROI applications such as game consoles.
In closing, we delivered very strong results for our third quarter, and we expect this momentum to continue in our fourth quarter and next year. Both the acquired Inphi business and the standalone Marvell business are firing on all cylinders. In the third quarter, the stand-alone Marvell business delivered strong year-over-year revenue growth close to 30%.
The Inphi business performed even better. The midpoint of our guidance for revenue in the fourth quarter implies a similar approximately 30% year-over-year growth rate for each of these businesses. We are proud of these results and our outlook for growth in the fourth quarter, which is well above the high end of our long-term revenue growth target of a 15% to 20% CAGR.
Securing capacity for growth remains the highest priority for our operations team even as the supply expansion comes with an increase in input costs. As we have done throughout the supply crunch, we are working with our customers to adjust prices to offset the impact of these cost increases, which led us jointly benefit from sustained growth.
As we look at next fiscal year, we will continue to drive supply improvements, and we expect demand to remain above the high-end of our long-term target mode. As a result, we anticipate a sustained period of strong revenue growth for Marvell. From a base of approximately $4.4 billion in fiscal 2022, we expect the combined Marvell and Inphi business to continue growing in fiscal 2023 at the 30% year-on-year rate we are currently achieving.
On top of this, we expect an additional $150 million of revenue in fiscal 2023, resulting from the Innovium acquisition. We are also excited about the setup for growth beyond fiscal 2023. At our Investor Day, you heard us describe our participation in end markets collectively expected to grow at a 13% CAGR.
In addition, we have a number of growth drivers, which we expect will result in our revenue growing faster than our end markets. We discussed our expectations for a step-up in incremental revenue from the start of new design win ramps. We updated our expectations for revenue from cloud optimized silicon design wins to ramp to $400 million in fiscal 2024, a year earlier than prior projections. These wins are further projected to double to $800 million in revenue in fiscal 2025.
In 5G, starting in fiscal 2024, we expect to benefit from an increase in content at Nokia, when we start ramping our 5-nanometer OCTEON embedded processors into their 5G base station. Over the same time frame, our auto Ethernet connectivity business is expected to make significant progress towards driving revenue over $500 million annually, and our electro-optics PAM, Coherent and ZR portfolio is also projected to remain on a high-growth trajectory.
In summary, while we have been delivering strong results for multiple quarters, we are confident that we are still in the early stages of a sustained high-growth period for Marvell, and we are looking forward to reaping the benefits of the investments we have made in our business over the last few years.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Jean for more detail on our recent results and outlook.
Jean Hu
Thanks, Matt, and good afternoon, everyone.
I'll start with a review of our financial results for the third quarter and then provide our current outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. Revenue in the third quarter was $1.211 billion, exceeding the high end of our guidance range, growing 13% sequentially and 61% year-over-year.
Please note the acquisition of Innovium added approximately $5 million in revenue, which was not contemplated in our original guidance for the third quarter. Revenue growth was robust from all five of our end markets. Data center remained our largest end market, driving 41% of consolidated revenue. Enterprise networking was the next largest with 20% of total revenue, followed by carrier infrastructure at 18%, consumer at 15% and auto industrial at 6%.
GAAP gross margin was 48.5%, which includes the remaining position of Inphi inventory step-up costs. Non-GAAP gross margin was 65.1% of revenue, exceeding the high end of our guidance range primarily due to better than expected end market revenue mix. In particular, revenue from our enterprise networking end market was significantly better than our guidance.
GAAP operating expenses were $621 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $371 million, which included 25 days of Innovium operating expenses of approximately $5 million. Our GAAP operating loss was $33 million. Non-GAAP operating profit was $480 million, or 34.5% of revenue, an all-time record demonstrating the strong leverage in our operating model, while we continue to invest for long-term revenue growth.
For the third quarter, GAAP loss per diluted share was $0.08. Non-GAAP income per diluted share was $0.43, $0.02 above the high end of our guidance. Earnings per share grew 26% sequentially and 72% year-over-year driven by strong top line revenue momentum and execution on both gross and operating margins.
Now turning to our balance sheet and cash flow. During the quarter, cash flow from operations was $265 million. We returned $50 million to shareholders through cash dividends. We paid down $151 million of our long-term debt during the third quarter. As of the end of the third fiscal quarter, our long-term debt was $4.5 billion. Our gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio was three times and net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.7 times.
Inventory at the end of the third quarter was $629 million. $71 million of this inventory balance is from Innovium, including $42 million in step-up cost due to purchase price accounting. We anticipate amortizing the step-up cost over the next two quarters. We have also increased our work in process inventory to support the revenue growth in revenue we are forecasting. In summary, the Marvell team executed exceptionally well, delivering accelerated top line growth and earnings expansion much faster than revenue growth.
Now turning to our guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. Please note this guidance includes the expected results from the Innovium business for the full quarter. We are forecasting revenue to be in the range of $1.32 billion, plus or minus 3%. We expect our GAAP gross margin in the range of 47.9% to 49.8%. We project our non-GAAP gross margin will be approximately 65%.
We project our GAAP operating expenses to be in the range of $630 million to $640 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP operating expenses to be in the range of $390 million to $395 million, which include approximately $15 million of OpEx for the acquired Innovium business for the full quarter. This outlook also reflects the increase in investment to support the accelerated revenue growth we are driving across the business, including the launch of multiple new projects tied to the design wins we have discussed in prior quarters.
In addition, we're including a higher amount of bonus crew given our strong operating performance well above our plan. As a reminder, looking ahead to the first fiscal quarter of 2023, due to the typical seasonality in payroll taxes, our OpEx tends to increase from Q4 of fiscal year by high single digits sequentially on a percentage basis. We expect non-GAAP tax rate of 5%. We expect our basic weighted average share outstanding will be 844 million and our diluted weighted average share outstanding will be 861 million. As a result, we anticipate GAAP earnings per share in the range of a loss of $0.03 per share on the lower end to an income of $0.04 per diluted share on the high end. We expect non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $0.48, plus or minus $0.03.
Now, let me now close with some directional comments on our investment plan for the next fiscal year. As Matt mentioned earlier, we see continued strong demand across our end markets and improvement in supply to drive our top line revenue growth above 30% in fiscal 2023.
To support both near-term and long-term revenue growth, we are planning to increase our investment levels appropriately, annualize the midpoint of our OpEx guidance for Q4 for fiscal 2022, which includes both Inphi and Innovium for the full period implies a $1.57 billion baseline OpEx run rate. From this baseline, we are planning for OpEx to grow in the high single digits on a percentage basis in fiscal 2023, substantially lower than our top line revenue growth.
We increased our spending to execute on significant design wins and continue to drive process technology leadership as well as aggressive pursue a growing funnel of new design win opportunities within the large $30 billion we discussed at our Investor Day. We are confident we'll continue to drive strong and sustainable long-term revenue growth and deliver earnings expansion much faster than revenue growth in fiscal 2023 and beyond.
Operator, please open line and announce Q&A instructions. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Blayne Curtis with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Blayne Curtis
Good afternoon, and great results. Maybe just a question. I know you're going to get a bunch on supply, but obviously, that seems like the biggest swing factor into the upside. So talk about that and maybe also just address the enterprise segment? Because I think that was your biggest beat and you were thinking it would be down. So just refresh my memory in terms of why you thought it would be down and maybe just a perspective on just supply in general. You said that you're signing long-term agreements. At what point do you think you'll kind of get out from under this supply constraint?
Matt Murphy
Yes. Thanks, Blayne. And what I would lead off by saying is I think the two questions you asked are interrelated, meaning the enterprise strength we saw was really as a result of a pretty big catch-up in supply.
So, on the topic of supply, we're really pleased with the progress. We, like a lot of other companies have been challenged to meet this unprecedented demand. And I'm very proud to say that our team has responded really well. And so a couple of factors, one is we've driven pretty big transformation in our operations group. Part of that was signing long-term supply agreements. I'd say equally meaningful, though, was the strategic nature in which we've really engaged over the last nine months with our supply chain. Our partners understand our opportunity as well as anybody now, and they're really betting on us and they're betting on Marvell. That's helped a lot. And it's just been strong execution by the team.
And so, when you add it all up, really what's happened, Blayne, is the demand has continued to be very, very strong and that's continued even until now. It's really been a story of supply catching up, and what I would note is supply has caught up a lot, obviously. But to be honest, we still aren't really making a dent yet in the unfulfilled backlog that's out there. So, it's a two-edged sword.
On the one hand, it's great. We're getting more supply. On the other hand, demand continues to be very strong, and we see that going into next year. But certainly, we'll take the win in Q3 and also the Q4 guide relative to the great job our team has done.
And enterprise, as we noted the last time was really -- we had a very nice Q2 on enterprise. And we were able to actually do just again -- the team has done a great job to get the supply wind up to meet the strong demand. And then if you actually look into Q4, you've got enterprise up again, and really the year-over-year story is what, I think, most impressive. I mean we're talking about 60% year-over-year growth projected in our Enterprise segment. Almost all of that is organic plan, and that will continue to grow next year. Thanks.
Operator
The next question will come from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Ross Seymore
Thanks for letting me ask the question. Matt, I wanted to dive a little bit into the guidance you gave for fiscal 2023. That was a little more detailed than I had expected, and it seems like you're exceedingly confident about the revenue growth side of it. Can you just talk a little bit more detail on -- it looks like about $5.6 billion in revenue, given the math that you said. If we took the Innovium side out, because we all have a decent idea of what's happening there, can you just talk about what the biggest drivers of that growth is going to be year-over-year? And if something happened that's increased your confidence in your ability to deliver that, whether it be the supply side coming or if you're just willing to talk more about design wins that you have kind of dropped breadcrumbs to us about over the last few calls?
Matt Murphy
Sure. I think there's a few factors, Ross. The first is we did lay out our strategic narrative at the Investor Day. So that was one setup we tried to give investors relative to where the business was heading. Second is when we look into next year where we certainly see the demand strength continuing really across all segments. So that gives us a lot of confidence. That's data center, that's 5G, that's automotive. It's also enterprise and consumer. Those are backed up with purchase orders that are in place today.
So, the backlog we have is very strong. And I think the other point is we really want – and I really wanted to contextualize the growth that we're seeing in Q3 and Q4 on an organic basis with Marvell growing 30%, Inphi growing 30-ish and that effectively continuing so that the investment community understood that this wasn't a short-term bump, but rather part of a longer period of sustained growth which we believe actually has legs even beyond next year.
And then the simple math, and I'll let Jean chime in. But basically what we said is just take the pro forma $4.4 billion-ish we'll do this year, if you take our Q4 guide. We believe we'll grow that 30% next year. And then on top of that, you would add Innovium. So I think your number would be actually a little bit higher when we look out to next year.
Operator
The next question will come from Vivek Arya with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the very strong growth and the execution. I actually wanted to talk about the OpEx side. If I look in the last year, you’ve basically added almost $500 million in sales and OpEx has just grown about $100 million. And when I look at the guidance you are providing for next year also, that also suggests very strong leverage in the model and EBIT margins that can get into the high 30s. So, I'm curious, Matt or Jean, what's helping drive the leverage? How are you adding almost $1.5 billion plus in sales while keeping OpEx at these levels? How sustainable is this trajectory of expanding margins?