Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ:MRVL) Q4 2021 Earnings Conference Call March  3, 2021  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Ashish Saran - Vice President of Investor Relations
Matt Murphy - President and Chief Executive Officer
Jean Hu - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
C. J. Muse - Evercore
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Tore Svanberg - Stifel
Chris Rolland - Susquehanna
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC Nikko
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Marvell Technology Group Fourth Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Ashish Saran, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Ashish Saran
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Marvell's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 earnings call. Joining me today are Matt Murphy, Marvell's President and CEO; and Jean Hu, our CFO.
I would like to remind everyone that certain comments made today may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Please review the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our earnings press release, which we filed with the SEC today and posted on our website, as well as our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements.
During our call today, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available on our website in the Investor Relations section.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Matt for his comments on our performance. Matt?
Matt Murphy
Thanks Ashish and good afternoon everyone. Let me start with a recap of Marvell's highlights for fiscal year 2021. Our GAAP revenue was 2.97 billion, GAAP gross margin was 50.1% and GAAP loss per diluted share was $0.41. On a non-GAAP basis our gross margin was 63.3% and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $0.92. Our consolidated revenue grew 10% year-on-year led by our networking business, which grew 22% year-on-year. Revenue growth combined with strong operating leverage from our business model enabled non-GAAP EPS to grow 39% year-on-year.
I am very pleased with our outstanding performance during what has been an otherwise challenging year. Our growth initiatives in 5G, cloud and automotive drove results in these key end markets, which collectively more than doubled in revenue from the prior year to represent more than 25% of fiscal year 2021 revenue. We are really pleased with the performance of Avera and Aquantia who both delivered revenue above our expectations. We successfully completed the integration of both businesses and overachieved on our synergy targets.
We also made great strides with our technology platform, announcing the jump to 5-nanometer and along with it, the industry's first 112 gig SerDes for Cloud Data Centre infrastructure. This move was a direct result of our multiyear strategic shift focused on data infrastructure and brings our process node cadence to the cutting edge. The power of our 5-nanometer platform and the benefits it provides for customers is evident in our opportunity funnel, which has grown significantly since we adopted this new node. The activity level on 5-nanometre continues to accelerate. And we have already secured multiple leading edge design wins, each meaningful from a revenue perspective.
Our advanced technology is also a key enabler of our custom ASIC offering, which has continued to gain momentum, particularly in cloud. Following on from the design win we announced last quarter, activity levels continue to increase and we are now involved in advanced discussions with multiple hyperscale data center customers. Our ability to offer customization coupled with Marvell's leading standard product IP has proven to be highly compelling to cloud customers. Given its strategic importance, let me provide some more detail on the evolution of the custom ASIC model, bringing to light some of the key trends that make the opportunity so compelling.
Traditionally, the primary customer base for custom ASICs has been large system OEMs, whose core business is developing hardware to sell as a product. These customers design their own system hardware and build unique technology into the hardware itself to custom chip development to differentiate their products. Most of the chip design directly and work with a semiconductor partner to license IP and manage the physical layout, in front and back end manufacturing. Today, in addition to these system customers hyperscale data center operators are also designing their own silicon, and I'm often asked if this trend is good or bad for Marvell.
We believe this trend is very good for us as we believe we are ideally positioned to help them solve their unique challenges. Their core business is the cloud service they provide not the hardware itself. They're building custom hardware because they need incredibly efficient and optimized infrastructure. As a result, they are looking for a semiconductor collaboration that goes well beyond the traditional customer ASIC model, and allows them to leverage IP that the silicon partner already has available.
The design is typically done in true partnership with the customer focusing on the portions proprietary to their use cases, and Marvell bringing our own unique compute, security, networking and storage IP to the table. Therefore, the end solution is a semi-custom design, which represents the best of both worlds and provides a faster time to market. Because these engagements use our IP, we believe this leads to a more strategic and valuable relationship with these key customers. In addition, computers becoming increasingly important in this market, as hyperscalers are looking to move beyond standard x86 servers and integrate custom ARM based compute solutions into their architecture. As this trend accelerates,
Marvell should be an even more important partner. A long history in successfully developing and delivering multiple generations of highly complex multi core ARM based processors, including server processors, is unique in the industry. Marvell is emerging as an ideal partner for these customers, and our recent cloud engagements involve deep engineering collaboration on all key aspects of design, including chip architecture, memory density, high speed SerDes integration, advanced packaging, power optimization, and flexible processor implementation.
Now, let me move on to our quarterly results and expectations. Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 was 798 million, 13 million above the midpoint of guidance, growing 6% sequentially and 11% year-over-year. Adjusted for the divestiture of Wi-Fi year-on-year, revenue growth was even greater at 15%.
Our GAAP income per diluted share was $0.02. Our non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $0.29, growing 16% sequentially and 71% year-over-year. As expected, supply constraints limited our ability to fully meet the growing demand for our networking products. We also saw strong demand for our storage products which drove the upside in revenue relative to the midpoint of our guidance.
Although these industry wide supply shortages are now well known, I expect that they may still be a topic of particular interest during our Q&A session. So in anticipation of your questions, let me provide as much detail as I can for you now. You're aware despite or perhaps more accurately due to the impact from COVID-19 demand has grown significantly across a range of semiconductor end markets as data infrastructure as become even more critical to the world's economy.
However, the supply chain was not completely prepared for the surge in demand and needs time to increase capacity. While we are confident that the industry will respond to these challenges, we anticipated supply gap for at least through fiscal 2022. Lead times have extended across the board. We are seeing shortages for multi-layer complex substrates, IC packaging capacity and fab constraints in certain technology nodes important for our products.
From our vantage point, the increase in demand we are experiencing for our 5G, cloud and auto products appears closely tied to the long-term secular growth drivers present in these end markets. This combined with the sole source nature of most of our design wins would suggest that most of the demand we are not able to satisfy in the near-term is not perishable. Marvell is collaborating even more closely with our customers to manage demand forecasts over an extended time horizon.
And our operations team is continuing to drive our suppliers to match supply appropriately to mitigate impacts and minimize disruptions. In addition, we are taking extraordinary measures including securing capacity in advance over much longer than typical time periods. And we are working with customers to get their assistance in helping absorb some of the incremental costs associated with prioritizing their continuity of supply.
Let's now discuss our two businesses in more detail. First, in our networking business, revenue during the fourth quarter was 439 million consistent with our outlook of being flattish to the prior quarter. Year-on-year growth remained robust with revenue growing 24% compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 results adjusted for the divestiture of Wi-Fi. The year-on-year growth in networking was led by our 5G and cloud businesses. In addition, revenue from our Ethernet Switch and PHY portfolio grew significantly as new design wins started to ramp.
Let me provide some color on sequential revenue movements in networking. In 5G, we delivered our sixth straight quarter of sequential revenue growth. This growth was driven by standard and semi-custom product shipments to Samsung and Nokia partially offset by a decline in 5G ASICs as deployments in China take a pause. Looking past the typical lumpy nature of individual regional rollouts, 5G infrastructure deployments are expected to continue to strengthen worldwide. As an example, the US recently concluded the first phase of the C-band spectrum auction. This was the highest grossing spectrum auction ever held in the US, with gross proceeds exceeding $80 billion.
A record level of interest is a clear indicator of the potential revenue opportunities carriers expect from 5G technology. Other regions around the world are also opening up spectrum for 5G services. And wireless industry experts expect deployments to gather strength later this year. We launched our Open RAN platform in December 2020 and are gaining traction in the marketplace. For example, we recently announced that we are joining the Evenstar program, and we'll be working with Facebook Connectivity to provide a 5G Open RAN distributed unit design. This design will be based on our leading OCTEON Fusion baseband processors and ARM based OCTEON multi-core DPUs. The Evenstar DU design will enable a new generation of RAM suppliers to deliver high performance cost optimized interoperable DU products to the rapidly expanding Open RAN ecosystem.
We recently announced that Fujitsu will be using our industry leading OCTEON Fusion baseband processors in its new 5G base stations and also plan to engage with us on Open RAN distributed unit products. They are the second 5G regional customer I referenced last quarter. In cloud networking, we benefited from strong customer demand in the fourth quarter for our SmartNIC DPUs, while our cloud ASIC declined as expected. Looking forward, we expect to continue benefiting from the secular growth in cloud CapEx on semiconductor solutions for data processing.
Turning to our automotive business, quarterly revenues crossed into the double digit million run rate driven by the ramp of multiple Ethernet design wins in model year 2021 vehicles. Engagements are expanding at additional large OEMs and bookings have continued to strengthen. We believe that fiscal 2022 is shaping up to be a breakout year for this business. The fourth quarter was robust for Ethernet Switch and PHY business with product ramps at multiple customers. The design wins we won over the last couple of years are now starting to ramp and we expect these will contribute higher levels of revenue as we progress into fiscal 2022.
Let me now discuss the outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2022 for our networking business. Reflecting strong demand despite continued supply constraints we project revenues to grow close to 10% on a sequential basis and continue strong year-on-year growth exceeding 20%. We expect this growth to be broad based led by our cloud DPUs, standard and semi-custom 5G solutions, automotive products and Ethernet networking solutions, partially offset by softness in 5G ASICs.
Turning now to our storage business, storage revenue for the fourth quarter was better than expected across all product lines growing 18% sequentially to 326 million. This was a very strong quarter for our storage business with 10% year-on-year growth driven by our custom SSD controller and cloud HDD products. I'm very pleased with the tremendous progress we have made over the last few years in enabling high capacity nearline HDDs, which are critical for cloud customers.
We have extended our long-standing relationship with Toshiba, and we recently announced that our controllers and preamps are powering their new 18 terabyte cloud scale HDDs. Toshiba's 18 terabyte products deliver industry leading data storage capacity by utilizing MAMR technology and advanced signal processing developed in close partnership with Marvell. The close coupling of Marvell's rechannel and preamplifier IP enables leading edge features and HDD capacity to extend Toshiba's position in the cloud data center market.
Let me now provide some additional color on storage revenue on a sequential basis. In the fourth quarter, our custom SSD controller revenue benefited from the ongoing ramp at a Tier-1 OEM as well as the initial ramp at a major cloud customer. In HDDs demand was strong across multiple end markets including enterprise, smart video, retail and client and our business benefited from aggregate HDD unit TAM growth of about 10% sequentially. Our revenue from cloud HDDs also grew on strong customer demand for our products.
In our Fiber Channel business demand recovered significantly from the COVID-19 impacts earlier in the year. Our operations team was able to increase supply to help our OEMs restock and deliver more product to their customers. Looking to the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we've projected a seasonal decline in storage controller demand. In addition after last quarter's inventory replenishment by customers, we expect a more than seasonal decline in Fiber Channel demand. As a result, after a very strong fourth quarter, we expect our storage revenue has declined in the low teens sequentially on a percentage basis. However, we expect continued year-on-year growth of over 10% in the first quarter.
In closing, needless to say last year was a very challenging period as we adjusted to operating in the presence of a pandemic. It was almost exactly a year ago today when shelter in place policies were coming into effect. And we were in the midst of taking action to protect our 5,000 plus employees and an extended support team of contractors and suppliers. Analysts really knew how the year would evolve or how the pandemic would impact our productivity or the demand for our products and technology.
I can now look back and applaud a strong performance by the Marvell team in the face of adversity, incredible program execution, record design win achievement, stronger customer relationships, double digit revenue growth and significant margin expansion. I'm very proud of our employees and I would like to thank them for their collective efforts in positioning Marvell to emerge even stronger from the pandemic.
We ended fiscal 2021 on the strong note that we are kicking off fiscal 2022 solid growth expectations, guiding revenue at the midpoint for the first quarter to grow 15% year-on-year despite ongoing supply challenges. We expect strong year-on-year growth from both our networking and storage businesses in the first quarter. Non-GAAP EPS at the midpoint for the first quarter is projected to grow by 50% year-on-year demonstrating the operating leverage in our business model.
In fiscal 2022 we expect revenue growth from custom SSD controllers, preamplifiers, automotive Ethernet and enterprise networking in addition to our expanding 5G and cloud businesses, which is still early in their growth cycles. Our team has also focused on closing key design wins from the large funnel of 5-nanometer and cloud engagements I discussed earlier.
We are getting closer to completing the Inphi transaction and as part of integration planning, we recently concluded a series of joint strategic planning sessions. The conclusion of these meetings our team's walked away more excited than ever about the depth of technology and the level of talent across the combined company. The addition of Inphi broadens the opportunity set for the combined company and this will be a key factor in setting future investment priorities. As a reminder of the closing of the Inphi transaction remain subject to obtaining shareholder and regulatory approvals and satisfying other closing conditions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jean for more detail on our recent results and outlook.
Jean Hu
Thanks Matt and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with a review of our financial results for the fourth quarter and then provide our current outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Revenue in the fourth quarter was 798 million, 13 million above the midpoint of our guidance. Networking represented 55% of our revenue and storage contributing 41%.
Revenue from other accounted for 4% of our revenue. GAAP gross margin was 52.8%. Non-GAAP gross margin was 63.9% of revenue, both consistent with our guidance. GAAP operating expenses were 423 million and they include the cost of share-based compensation expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets, legal assessments and acquisition and divestiture related costs.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were 283 million just above the midpoint due to slightly higher project costs. GAAP operating loss was 2 million. Non-GAAP operating profit was 226 million, or 28.4% of revenue. For the fourth quarter GAAP income per diluted share was $0.02. Non-GAAP income per diluted share was $0.29.
Now turning to our balance sheet, during the quarter cash flow from operations was 158 million. We returned 40 million to shareholders through dividend payment. During the quarter we paid down 150 million of our term loan and the exit the quarter with 748 million in cash and cash equivalents and a total debt outstanding over 1.2 billion. Our net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.5 times on a trailing 12-month basis. We have temporarily suspended our share repurchase program due to the pending acquisition of Inphi.
For the full fiscal year of 2021, we returned a total of 186 million to shareholders through 161 million in dividends and the 25 million in share repurchases. In addition, we paid down 250 million of our term loan. During fiscal 2021, we also generated strong cash flow from operations of 817 million.
Turning to our guidance, for the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we are forecasting revenue to be in the range of 800 million plus or minus 5%. We expect our GAAP growth margin will be approximately 52.5%. We project our non-GAAP gross margin will be approximately 63.5%. We project our GAAP operating expense to be approximately 391 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 300 million. We expect our non-GAAP tax rate of 5%.
We expect our basic weighted average shares outstanding will be 677 million and our diluted weighted average shares outstanding will be 619 million. As a result, we anticipate GAAP earnings per share in the range of a loss of $0.05 per share on the low end to an income of $0.05 per diluted share on the high end. We expect a non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $0.23 to $0.31.
Finally two housekeeping points, as a reminder, our GAAP EPS is calculated using basic weighted average shares outstanding when there's a GAAP net loss and calculated using diluted weighted average shares outstanding when there's a GAAP net income. Non-GAAP EPS is calculated using diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
In terms of expenses, you should expect us to continue to invest in our long-term growth with disciplined the resource allocation. We expect our operating expense growth to be well below our revenue growth. Our OpEx increase year-over-year will be primarily due to employee merit increase and the normal inflation items such as the EDA tool [ph].
Our outlook for operating expense in the first quarter reflects the seasonal increase in payroll taxes. This seasonal effect is expected to dissipate in the second quarter offset by a partial quarter of merit increase. The full impact from merit increase will be present in the third quarter. By the time we exit the fiscal year, we estimate our non-GAAP operating expense in the fourth quarter will increase in the range of 3% to 4% on a year-over-year basis.
Operator, please open the line and announce Q&A instructions. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Harlan Sur from JP Morgan. Your question please.
Harlan Sur
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Appreciate the commentary on supply constraints. And I'm not asking the team to endorse higher revenues in the second half of the year. But I would expect China 5G spend to come back in the second half. 5G outside of China remains strong. Sony is going to double their PS5 shipments this year. And then you have continued momentum in cloud, but if the backlog supported higher revenues in the second half, let's say 10% higher versus 800 million in April. Is the team confident that you can support quarter-on-quarter revenue growth to the second half? Or do you think that that will be a challenge just given the tight wafer substrate and assembly and test capacity constraints?
Matt Murphy
Sure. Thanks Harlan. Yeah. No, I think you highlighted some of the growth drivers. So just a few comments, I think the first is we are - we have been planning for growth in our FY '22. I think we're off to a good start for the year. If you look at our Q1 guidance alone, it's going to be up 15% year-over-year versus a year ago. We've got some very strong secular growth drivers. You mentioned 5G, and there's certainly some positive signs, especially for the second half there. We have our cloud business, which is also growing on a secular basis, as well as our new product ramps that actually we also have automotive, which is really off to a good start this year and we see that continuing.
So we've got that as a tailwind behind us. I'd say we've been able to drive growth, even if you look at FY '21, pretty consistently. We've been growing each quarter, quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. Q4 we were able to actually exceed guidance and make up - service some of the demand that was there. So that was that was a positive sight. I think - so I think the messages we've been delivering well, there's been a new sort of increased surge. And that's really where we're focused is working with our supply chain partners to be able to capture that upside above and beyond the growth rate that we've already been achieving.
So bottom line answer to your question is I'm very confident that we can grow revenue in the second half, based on the capacity that we've secured and worked hard with our supply chain partners to put in place. And we're also going to look to see if there's upside opportunity to pursue that as well. And that's not only for this year. But as I look even in our FY '23, we're starting to work with our supply chain partners there as well, to really give them advance notice, because we see those trends like 5G, cloud and automotive being even stronger in the out years, with new products ramping new, new customers coming online and we're pretty excited about our future there. So yeah, I think we'll be in - we're working hard on all fronts.
Harlan Sur
Great. Thank you, Matt.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya from Bank of America. Your question, please.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. Matt, when I look back at this earnings season most of - most semiconductor companies reported and guided to trends well ahead of expectation, right, so much so that investors right have often complained about over shipments or pull in of orders. But when I compare your Q4 and Q1 against expectations, it's been more measured. I'm curious, how much of this would you attribute to a different end market mix, right. How much of this is due to supply constraints? And then more importantly what changes or gets better the rest of the year? So you can start to accelerate your sales growth. Thank you.
Matt Murphy
Sure. Yeah, I think so that gets a couple things. I think first that it has a lot to do with the end markets that we're in. I mean fundamentally remember, we're one of the only pure play infrastructure company. So we don't have consumer demand that sort of very volatile, maybe good one quarter maybe not so good in two quarters, we don't have a lot of demand that sort of comes and goes. We tend to - and this is sort of by design, by the way, the business model that we've put together is to bring together these various end applications and drive consistent and ideally predictable growth.
So while we may not be as flashy in some quarters as certain companies that really have some explosive demand, but then maybe it abates later, we're focused on slow and steady wins today and continuing to execute and grow our company, quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. Certainly there's opportunities out there to secure some upside, and we're working on that. But I think even if you saw in Q4, for us, we were quite pleased with the overachievement on revenue. And we're very comfortable with the first quarter guide as well. So I think it's more around, we've been one of the faster growers in the last few quarters, and also our end market dynamics, ideally, will deliver more repeatable and sustainable long-term growth with maybe less quarter-to-quarter variation. That's been the strategy.
Vivek Arya
And anything changed in the second half versus what you have seen in the last two quarters? What gets better from here?
Matt Murphy
In terms of the demand or the supply?
Vivek Arya
Yeah, on the demand and the end market mix.
Matt Murphy
Sure. Yeah. Well, I think a couple things are going on. If you - as I indicated in my comments earlier with Harland - with Harlan, we certainly have - 5G in the second half will continue to accelerate. We have - there are new geographies coming online, we believe that the US will –shows very good prospects for the second half. We believe that China as well will go through their digestion phase, and then you have Japan and we have new countries even India's talking about potentially pulling in their spectrum options, so that that's all positive. So we expect that to continue. Our cloud business continues to grow. And we see that continuing both on a secular basis, as well as new products, including our ASICs storage and our DPUs, which are doing quite well, in terms of SmartNICs. Automotive, the same thing, we've got a good ramp going with our calendar - our model year, sorry, '21 ramps.
We've got more to come in model year '22, with additional OEMs coming online, as well as expanded content, and even some of the new automotive, I call it the new breed of automotive OEMs, the EV only focused companies really aggressively adopting our solution. So we're positive there. And then we've got custom SSD controllers, both for cloud as well as for our system OEM. And finally, on top of that, our enterprise business has done extremely well. If you look at - which was surprising, but if you look at even our results in last year, that business with our Switch, and PHY products grew significantly, primarily on our own product cycle. And we also are very optimistic about that as well. So there's a number of good things that are happening in our business with that both from an end market as well as a product cycle standpoint. And so as I - as Harlan pointed out you've got to - we've got to go just continue to make sure we've got the right supply profile to meet that but we're working hard on that.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri from UBS. Your question, please.
Timothy Arcuri
Hi, thanks. Matt, I just had a question on the storage busi