Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ:MRVL) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call May 28, 2020  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Ashish Saran - Vice President, Investor Relations
Matthew Murphy - President & Chief Executive Officer
Jean Hu - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo Securities
CJ Muse - Evercore
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Atif Malik - Citi
Harlan Sur - JP Morgan
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Tore Svanberg - Stifel
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Marvell's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker; Vice President of Investor Relations, Ashish Saran. Sir, please go ahead.
Ashish Saran
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Marvell's first quarter fiscal year 2021 earnings call. Joining me today are Matt Murphy, Marvell's President and CEO; and Jean Hu, our CFO.
I would like to remind everyone that certain comments today may include forward-looking statements, which are subject to significant risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Please review the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in our earnings press release, which we filed with the SEC today and posted on our website, as well as our most recent 10-K and 10-Q filings. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements.
During our call today, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation between our GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is available on our website in the Investor Relations section.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Matt for his comments on our performance. Matt?
Matthew Murphy
Thanks. Ashish and good afternoon everyone. During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we delivered strong financial results and achieved $694 million in revenue, $14 million above the midpoint of guidance. As you may recall, our revenue guidance for the first quarter included an assumption for a 5% headwind from COVID-19. We did in fact experienced some impact on revenue from COVID-19-related issues but stronger-than-expected demand from our data center and 5G infrastructure end markets in our networking business drove consolidated company revenue above the midpoint.
Compared to our assumptions when we provided our revenue guidance for the first quarter, the impact of COVID-19 turned out to be greater than expected in our storage business and lower than expected in our networking business.
Our GAAP loss per share was $0.17. Our non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.18, above the high end of our guidance range, driven by higher revenue and tight OpEx control. On a sequential basis revenue declined by 3%. However, compared to fourth quarter results, adjusted for the divestiture of Wi-Fi, revenue for the ongoing business was actually flat on a sequential basis, a very solid result under current conditions, and in what is typically a seasonally weak quarter.
I'm extremely pleased with our team's ability to deliver great results despite the massive disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic. The vast majority of our employees have been working from home since early March, earlier than most official shelter-in-place orders were announced, as the health and welfare of our employees and their families was our first priority. Our IT team quickly jumped into action to provide secure, remote access for our 5,000 plus employees. Our Worldwide Operations Group battled through a number of supply chain challenges and met the upside in demand in our networking business.

Since the start of work from home, our engineering team has taped out eight new chips, an extremely high level of engineering output in this time frame, on schedule to meet our customers' critical timelines. Our sales team maintained a strong focus on customer communication through this critical time period and continue to drive our growing design win funnel.
I have personally experienced a much higher level of direct engagement with the leadership at multiple key customers at the CEO level. Normally, I fly out, meet my counterparts in person a few times a year. But during this crisis we have quickly adopted virtual meetings over video to increase the frequency of communication. We believe the change in cadence reflects our customers' desire to involve us deeply as a trusted partner in solving their need for higher bandwidth and storage in the post COVID-19 world.
Our mission as an infrastructure semiconductor solution provider to move, store, process and secure the world's data has never been more relevant and we are seeing strong demand drivers for our products and technology. I truly believe that the culture we have created at Marvell is enabling our success and has earned us the trust of our employees, customers and partners, and our new brand reflects these values.
Celebrating the company's 25-year anniversary, we recently launched Marvell's new brand identity, marking a milestone in our transformation to focus on semiconductor solutions for data infrastructure. This was something we had considered doing soon after we started to pivot the Company in the fall of 2016. But as you know, the company's brand is their reputation, and a reputation is earned. So instead we focused first on creating our new strategy, revamping our culture building, operational excellence and delivering business results.
After four years of hard work, we are ready to reveal a new brand that mirrors our culture, which focuses on the substance first. Our brand is built on a foundation of collaboration and partnership with our customers and we are driven by the belief that doing things the right way matters. Essential technology done right reflects our customer-centric approach, to high quality tailored solutions.
None of this would be possible without our dedicated employees who have been putting in a lot of extra hours through this unusual period which is likely to persist for a while.
Recognizing this challenge we are giving all employees a few extra days off and we are shutting down for a four day recharge weekend in the June.
Similarly, we have taken steps to help our contractors and the local community. We are continuing to pay our hourly workers in full as well as the service providers that support our facilities, regardless of whether they can fully perform their duties. In addition Marvell has started a COVID-19 relief fund to support our global communities and provide financial relief to those in need. A portion of the fund is dedicated to matching employee donations, so that employees will also have the opportunity to participate.
Until we are able to return to the office in Santa Clara, we plan to donate our entire cafeteria grocery budget to the Second Harvest Food Bank in support of those in need. It is in times of crisis that our values and leadership principles are truly tested. I'm proud of our team and the company we have built. We are in the fortunate position of being able to take care of our people and give back to our communities when it really counts.
During and after this crisis, we expect the demand for bandwidth to continue to grow stronger. Major cloud and service providers are facing unprecedented demand for their services as a result of so many people working from home and are scrambling to add capacity to their networks. 5G has become a strategic priority for many nations and also an economic growth driver for economies worldwide.

Enterprises are rapidly upgrading their networking infrastructure to support their workforce with remote access to critical business applications and advanced collaboration tools and a secure and scalable environment. We are in the midst of enabling all the key megatrends in 5G, data center cloud, enterprise and automotive as a leading supplier of their infrastructure semiconductors.
Over the last few quarters, we have discussed in detail our progress in the carrier market tied to the transition to 5G. Investor focus has been high in this area and I'll provide color on this opportunity in a few moments. For now, I'd like to draw your attention to the cloud data center market, which represents an opportunity for our storage and networking products, similar in magnitude to 5G. This is in addition to our ARM server opportunity, which we have previously outlined as a large multi-billion dollar market for us.
We've been working on building our business through organic investments over the past four years, as well as through products and engagements via the Cavium and Avera acquisitions. We are now starting to see the benefits from these efforts and I'm excited to share them with you. In our storage business over the last few years we've been transitioning our HDD business to focus on nearline drives, which are primarily consumed by cloud datacenters and this business has been growing nicely for us, through both our storage controllers and pre-amplifiers.
We expect that the 16-terabyte transition this year will drive strong growth for us. Our custom flash controllers are very well suited for cloud customers who have unique storage applications and are looking to disaggregate their SSDs to optimize performance and we pioneered the do-it-yourself model. We also have storage accelerators in evaluation at multiple cloud customers. In virtualized environments and cloud data centers multiple customers can be accessing the same physical storage resources simultaneously.
To ensure quality of service, expensive CPU cycles are consumed in managing workloads to ensure that all clients get uninterrupted access to their stored data. Our NVMe storage accelerators enables a better solution by offloading storage IO and freeing up CPU cycles, provisioning bandwidth and ensuring low latency to satisfy service level agreements, which are difficult to achieve with software-only solutions. We expect to see initial production ramps for our storage accelerators starting later this year.
In our networking business, our OCTEON compute platform is ideally suited for a variety of offload and acceleration applications in hyperscale datacenters. At GTC 2020 last week. Jensen Huang referred to this category of computing as the DPU, or data processing unit and indicated it would represent the third major pillar of computing in hyperscale data centers after the CPU and GPU. We couldn't agree more. OCTEON is an ideal DPU platform as it is an SoC that combines a scalable multi-core ARM processor, high performance networking in a variety of hardened acceleration engines.
As many of you know Cavium was a pioneer in this area. We have continued investing in this segment since the acquisition. Our recently announced OCTEON TX2 was specifically designed for cloud applications such as our LiquidIO programmable smart SmartNIC and LiquidSecurity HSM, or hardware security module product lines.
Cloud infrastructure requires optimized hardware for performance, cost and power at scale. Data center operators can achieve these goals by moving specific workloads on the highly optimized off-load engines, even the host server to run more efficiently. Our LiquidIO Smart NICs offload network virtualization, storage protocols, security, distributed firewall, software-defined networks and an network overlay for various cloud datacenter models.

Our latest LiquidIO SmartNIC incorporating OCTEON TX2 is ramping now as cloud provider demand is surging. Our LiquidSecurity HSM, which have been adopted by multiple leading cloud providers to provide fully managed cloud hosted protection for cryptographic keys and Crypto-as-a-Service are also ramping. Last year we announced deployments with Amazon, Google and Oracle and I am pleased that we have recently added another large Tier 1 cloud customer.
Our ARM-based server processors have been qualified at Microsoft for internal Azure development workloads and we are looking forward to broader adoption in production environments. Our ThunderX3 processor will become available later this year and we continue to engage with additional cloud providers on our solutions. The Avera acquisition brings to us leading edge custom chip design capability, which continues to become more relevant as hyperscalers seek to differentiate and control their own key pieces of silicon. They have very specific needs, and we can combine our leading intellectual property with their own unique IP to most efficiently solve their most complex system design challenges. As these customers continue to design their own silicon, they need a reliable ASIC partner that they can count on for the long haul.
Avera was already shipping into the cloud market when we acquired them and they brought over additional cloud design wins which have yet to go into production. The level of engagement with hyperscalers has also continued to grow, after we completed the acquisition and we are seen as a very attractive choice for next generation design decisions.
Collectively, we are now building strong cloud franchise, combining our storage networking and processor technology and have the unique ability to deliver products in standard, custom and semi-custom solutions. I'm pleased to report that for the first time we estimate that our revenue from the cloud market exceeded 10% of total company revenue, growing from a fairly small position at the same time last year. We expect that this business will continue to grow with that end market and our own unique product cycles and become another key growth driver for Marvell.
Let me now move on to discussing our two businesses in more detail. First, in our networking business revenue during the quarter was $394 million and grew 5% sequentially, significantly above our expectations for a low to mid-single digit decline. Compared to fourth quarter results, adjusted for the divestiture of Wi-Fi growth for the continuing networking business in the first quarter was in the double-digit sequentially. And I'm thrilled with this result.
Excellent supply chain execution allowed us to meet strong demand from cloud data centers for our Smart NICs and security adapters that I discussed earlier. Our one gig and 10 gig PHY products experienced robust demand from enterprise data centers as companies continue to upgrade the core of their network operations to deal with higher security and throughput demands.
Our wireless infrastructure business grew sequentially and performed better than our expectations of a flattish quarter in strong contrast to the pause or slowdown in 5G deployments mentioned by a number of industry peers for the same time period. We are benefiting from the start of the 5G build out in China where we have content through two of our key customers, who collectively have been awarded about 50% of the share of recently announced contracts.
We are currently supplying custom ASICs and standard connectivity products to these customers and are working with them on additional opportunities. In addition, we have a very strong position at Samsung where we have just started to ship our full suite of solutions and expect that their success in Korea, Japan and the US, to drive growth in the coming year. Our custom baseband solution for Nokia is progressing very well through qualification and we expect to start production later this year.

Collectively, we are designed into the latest generation of base stations in to multiple OEMs, which are expected to be powering all key geographies over several years. We are still at the very beginning of the industry transition from 4G to 5G and look forward to driving significant revenue growth from this end market.
Demand from the enterprise campus end market remained stable on a sequential basis, a good outcome under current market conditions. When we start to come out of the COVID-19 crisis, we are looking forward to the deployment of Wi-Fi 6 which requires higher speed Ethernet connections. We expect this adoption will drive growth for our multi-gig Ethernet products as we have a very strong design win position across most leading OEMs for enterprise Wi-Fi access points.
And we also have a strong position on campus switches, which aggregate traffic from these access points. We recently taped out additional products from our recently announced OCTEON TX2 family of ARM-based infrastructure processors, including our flagship highest performance solution featuring 36 cores which can deliver up to 200 gigabits per second of packet processing for the most demanding applications.
We also tapped out our Fusion-based processor, customized for massive MIMO applications for our leading wireless customer ahead of schedule. Our customer will be using this solution in their high volume massive MIMO SKUs and we expect to be ramping into production in the fall. The design win funnel for OCTEON processors is continuing to expand with a broad set of Tier 1 networking and high-end security firewall OEMs. The OCTEON platform is an extensive ARM-based embedded processor product family which can scale from four cores at the low end to 36 cores on the high end, all on a common software framework.
This is a critical advantage for Marvell when engaging with Tier 1 networking OEMs who want to partner with solution providers able to support their broad range of products, allowing massive software reuse. We are deep into the development already of our next generation OCTEON family based on advanced node process technology.
The combined strength of our recent OCTEON announcements and aggressive roadmap is resonating very well with key OEMs. In our emerging automotive business, there are encouraging signs that auto production is restarting in multiple geographies. And if this happens, we expect to start ramping Ethernet switches and PHYs in the second half of our fiscal year for the designs we had one in model year 2021 vehicles.
We expect to grow our automotive footprint over the next few years through our Ethernet connectivity products, but we see an even bigger opportunity for Marvell as cars continue to evolve towards becoming truly connected platforms. Traditional point to point solutions in cars are heading towards zonal architectures, very similar to modern enterprise networking, where endpoints connect to centralized compute and storage resources over a secure Ethernet backbone.
We believe that we have all the pieces in place to be a leader in the market for this evolution, low power and high performance ARM-based embedded processors, proven security IP, automotive grade gigabit and multi-gigabit Ethernet connectivity, advanced storage technology and a solution delivery model which can span from standard product to full custom. We will discuss this broader initiative in more detail at our Investor Day in October.
Let me now discuss the outlook for our networking business. After a very strong first quarter we expect our networking business to continue to grow in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 and project revenue to increase in the low-single digits sequentially. We expect this growth to be driven by 5G wireless infrastructure deployments and our carrier end market.

Looking out to the third quarter, based on our recent bookings and firm backlog position, we expect our 5G business to continue to ramp, strongly. Turning now to our storage business, storage revenue for the first quarter was $259 million, a double-digit sequential decline, worse than our expectations for a mid-single digit decline. This was due to multiple manufacturing facilities in Southeast Asia coming under new shelter-in-place orders in connection with COVID-19 as the quarter progressed, impacting production of fiber channel adapters and hard disk drives.
Our SSD controller business, in contrast remained resilient and grew sequentially, driven by higher shipments in to data center applications. Looking to the second quarter, we expect our storage business to start to recover from COVID-19 impacts on the supply chain. Although a full recovery is more likely in our third quarter. We have started initial shipments of our custom SSD controllers for system level applications in our second fiscal quarter.
As a result, we are projecting storage revenue growth of approximately 10% sequentially for the second quarter. This custom SSD controller is based on our new PCIe Gen4 architecture and was developed in close collaboration with our customer to create a storage controller uniquely tailored to their application. I'm very pleased with our strong engineering and operations execution, which has enabled us to start early shipments to meet our customers' production schedule.
We expect the storage controller to ramp into high volume in our third fiscal quarter. In closing, we have a strategy focused on semiconductor solutions for data infrastructure. The critical nature of that infrastructure became even more evident during the current crisis, as it keeps people connected, businesses running and information flowing.
Our pivot to data infrastructure wasn't an accident, and is a direct result of our decisive strategic portfolio actions over the last four years. Our strategy is in place. We are executing well and we have the right team and technology to exceed our customers' expectations. Our booking and backlog trends are very healthy, especially in 5G cloud and custom SSD, and support our expectations of driving overall company growth beyond the second quarter. We of course will continue to closely monitor demand signals from our customers in this uncertain environment.
We remain confident in our ability to continue to benefit over the long term from the macro trends I outlined during this call.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Jean for more detail on our recent results and outlook.
Jean Hu
Thanks, Matt and good afternoon everyone. I'll start with a review of our financial results for the first quarter and then provide our current outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. Revenue in the first quarter was $694 million above the middle point of our guidance. Networking represented 57% of our revenue in the first quarter with storage contributing 37%. Revenue from other accounted for 6% of our revenue as we maintain this business consists of products such as print solutions and application processors. As we have stopped investing, so we expect they will continue to decline over time.
Our guidance for the second quarter anticipate an approximately 20% sequential decline in revenue for these products. GAAP gross margin was 47.1%, which includes the amortization of both Aquantia and Avera inventory step-up cost. Non-GAAP gross margin was 62.8% of revenue and it reflects the change in product mix compared to our expectations, as Matt discussed earlier. GAAP operating expenses were $423 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $300 million, lower than expected, primarily because of our continued focus on OpEx management and the lower travel expenses due to the COVID -19 impact.

I'm pleased that we were able to get to our target for non-GAAP operating expenses three quarters than earlier than expected. And we currently intend to manage OpEx at this level through the rest of the fiscal year. GAAP operating loss was $96 million. Non-GAAP operating profit was $136 million or 19.6% of revenue. For the first quarter GAAP loss per diluted share was $0.17. Non-GAAP income per diluted share was $0.18 above the high end of our guidance range.
Now turning to our balance sheet, during the quarter, cash flow from operations was $176 million. We returned $65 million to shareholders, through 25 million in share repurchases, and $40 million in dividends. We temporarily suspended our share repurchase program midway way through the first quarter as we believe it's prudent to further strengthen our liquidity and the increase our cash balance during the uncertain environment. We'll continue to evaluate the business conditions to decide when to restart the share repurchase a program.
We exited the quarter with $660 million in cash and short-term investment, and we have $500 million liquidity available from our undrawn revolver. Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.2 times on a trailing 12 month basis. I'm very pleased with our solid financial performance in the first quarter here and in the current environment. We achieved this result by building a strong business model to focus on the growing opportunities in the infrastructure market and continuing to be very disciplined in operating our business to focus on channel investment, while keeping ample liquidity and low debt leverage ratio.
Our performance also underpins our strong investment grade credit profile, which provides us with significant financial flexibility to invest in our long-term growth initiatives, so we can emerge from this uncertain time even stronger.
Now moving on to our current outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we are forecasting revenue to be in the range of $720 million, plus or minus 5%. We anticipate our GAAP gross margin will be approximately 50.6%. And our non-GAAP gross margin will be approximately 63%. We project our GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $393 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $300 million. We expect net interest expense to be approximately $15 [ph] million and expect a non-GAAP tax rate of 5%.
As a result, we anticipate that GAAP loss per diluted share in the range of $0.02 to $0.10 and non-GAAP income per diluted share in the range of $0.17 to $0.23.
Operator, please open the line and announce Q&A instructions. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri of UBS. Your question please.
Timothy Arcuri
Thanks a lot. In the release you had mentioned that you had some impact for the trade -- for what's happening in trade. So Jean, can you just talk about that and talk about maybe what the impact is and maybe whether there is a longer term opportunity, maybe now that High Silicon is going to be quite restricted in sort of what they can build. Will there be an opportunity for you there?
And, I guess also -- I just wanted to ask whether you have an update on the $600 million incremental 5G opportunity. Sounds like it's going to be quite a bit bigger than that, maybe it's big as a $1 billion. So I'm wondering if you can comment on that. Thanks.
Jean Hu
Yes, hi, Tim. Thank you. Yes, on the trade impact. I think the impact from Huawei it has happened in the past. So we -- it's already impacted our revenue last year. We actually almost have no Huawei revenue anymore going forward. On the other customers, right now based on our assessment we don't see additional impact. And I think the way to think about it is there -- it's uncertain. But right now we don't see other impact. I'll let Matt answer the 5G question.

Matthew Murphy
Sure, yes. And Tim just to clarify on the trade side, yes, as Jean mentioned we felt primarily the brunt of that impact, about a year ago when the initial restrictions were put in place. And so we've worked through that issue. I think the other thing you may be asking is, what's the kind of overall picture if there's an impact to that particular customer in the 5G space and will other vendors take share, will that be a tailwind for Marvell? And the answer to that is in our current base case assumption we're assuming no share shifts.
We have strong position at the other four, but certainly to the extent that there are SHARE movements within the 5G players that would be to the benefit of other customers that we supply, that would be a good thing for us. Related to that was your was your second part of the question, which was on the long-term opportunity. Yes, it's actually a little bit larger. It was $600 million when we standalone Marvell, and then when we did the acquisition of Avera, we added another $150 million of run rate business coming over. So, that really framed the whole opportunity at $750 million. We still feel very good about that as you heard in my prepared remarks, as well as even some of the comments from last quarter, we continue to have very strong design win momentum there and content increase at a number of the key players.
And we continue to be heavily engaged and we're still in the early stages of this and we hope to update that figure at some point in the future, but just clearly based on what we've won already there is $750 million that's in the pipeline. Probably a little bit more if you look at the Nokia partnership that we announced last quarter. So that's very much on track. Thanks for the question by the way.
Timothy Arcuri
Okay, understood, Matt. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Gary Mobley of Wells Fargo Securities. Your line is open.
Gary Mobley
Hey, everyone. Good afternoon. Congrats on a start to -- a good start to the fiscal year. Want to start out by asking about the strength that you've been seeing on the networking side in particular, 5G and cloud as well. And so clearly we've seen some good demand trends there, and I'm just curious to hear your perspective on where we might sit with respect to some of those customers maybe adding some capacity ahead of demand or are they playing catch up and trying to get a sense of whether or not there might be some carry through on the strength in the second half of the year.
Matthew Murphy
