Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q2 2022 Earnings Conference Call November  5, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ganesh Moorthy – President and Chief Executive Officer
Steve Sanghi – Executive Chair
Eric Bjornholt – Chief Financial Officer
Sajid Douty – Head of Investor Relations
Conference Call Participants
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Gary Mobley – Wells Fargo
Vivek Arya – Bank of America Securities
Tore Svanberg – Stifel
Prajib Rahmani – UBS
Matt Ramsay – Cowen
Harlan Sur – JPMorgan
William Stein – Truist Securities
Chris Danely – Citi
Toshiya Hari – Goldman Sachs
Ambrish Srivastava – BMO
Chris Caso – Raymond James
Christopher Rolland – Susquehanna
David O'Connor – Exane
Nick Todoros – Longbow Research
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Microchip Second Quarter Fiscal 2022 Financial Results. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Microchip's Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Eric Bjornholt. Please go ahead.
Eric Bjornholt
Alright. Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the Company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual event or results may differ materially. 
We refer you to our press release of today, as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip's business and results of operations. And in attendance with me today are Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip's President and CEO, Steve Sanghi, Microchip's Executive Chair, and Sajid Douty, Microchip's Head of Investor Relations who just joined us over the course of the last month. 
I will comment on our second quarter fiscal year 2022, financial performance, Ganesh will then provide commentary on our results, discuss the current business environment, as well as our guidance, and Steve will provide an update on our cash return strategy. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions. 
We are including information in our press release and in this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures, we have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com and included reconciliation information in our press release, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. 
We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website. I will now go through some of our operating results, including net sales, gross margin, and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation, and certain other adjustments as described in our press release. 
Net sales in the September quarter were $1.65 billion, which was up 5.1% sequentially, and up 26% compared to the September quarter of 2020. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales by product line and geography, as well as our total end-market demand on our website for your reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record at 65.3% and operating income was a record 42.5%. 
Non-GAAP net income was a record $605.6 million, our non-GAAP cash tax rate in the quarter was 6%, and Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share on a split adjusted basis exceeded the midpoint of our guidance, and were a record $1.07. This reflects our recent 2-for-1 stock split that was effective for stockholders of record on October 4th, 2021. On a GAAP basis in the September quarter, gross margins were a record at 64.8% and include the impact of $9.1 million of share-based compensation expense. 
Total operating expenses were 652 million and include acquisition and tangible amortization of $215.7 million, special charges of $10.2, $2.8 million of acquisition-related and other costs and share-based compensation of $46.6 million. GAAP net income was $242 million or $0.43 per diluted share. And was negatively impacted by the GAAP loss on the convertible debt exchanges that we executed in the quarter, which were not included in our guidance. 
Our September quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors, most notably the tax benefit recorded on the convertible debt exchange transactions that I just mentioned. Our inventory balance at September 30, 2021 was $713.6 million. We had 112 days of inventory at the end of the quarter, which was up one day from the prior quarter's level. 
Our levels of raw materials and work in progress increased in the quarter, which helps position us for the increased production we're expecting from our internal factories. We're ramping capacity in our internal and external factories so we can ship as much as possible to support customer requirements. 
Inventory at our distributors in the September quarter was at 19 days, which is a record low level and down from 20 days as of the end of the prior quarter. In the September quarter, we exchanged a total of $263.6 million of our 2025, 2027 and 2037, convertible subordinated notes for cash and shares of our common stock. We used cash generation during the quarter to fund the principal amount of the convertible debt exchanges. 
And we believe that these transactions will benefit stockholders by significantly reducing share count dilution to the extent our stock price appreciates over time. The principal amount of convertible debt on the Balance Sheet at September 30th was $999.2 million compared to $4.481 billion at the beginning of calendar year 2020, putting our overall capital structure and a much better long-term position. 
Our cash flow from operating activities was $611.7 million in the September quarter. Our free cash flow was $533.2 million and 32.3% of net sales. As of September 30th, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $255.3 million. We paid down $415.6 million of total debt in the September quarter, and over the last 13 full quarters since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we have paid down over 4.4 billion of debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down this debt. 
We have accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during much of this period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash-generation capabilities of our business, as well as our ongoing operating discipline. We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years. Our adjusted EBITDA in the September quarter was a record at $762.5 million or 46.2% of net sales. 
Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was also a record at $2.7 billion and 45% of net sales. Our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA, excluding our very long - dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and is more equity-like in nature, was 2.99 at September 30th, 2021, down from 3.34 at June 30th, 2021. 
Our dividend payment in the September quarter was a $121.2 million Capital expenditures were $78.5 million in the September quarter. Our expectation for the December 2021 quarter's capital expenditures is between $70 million and $90 million. Our capital expenditures for FY2022 are now expected to be between $350 million and $400 million. 
As a reminder, our fiscal year 2021 capital expenditures came in lower than originally planned due to longer equipment lead times and deliveries pushing as a result of overall industry conditions. We continue to add capital equipment to maintain, grow, and operate our internal manufacturing operations to support the expected growth of our business. 
We expect these capital investments will bring gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control over our production during periods of industry-wide constraints. Depreciation expense in the September quarter was $43.7 million. And right now I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give his comments on the performance in the business in the September quarter, as well as our guidance for the December quarter. Ganesh.
Ganesh Moorthy
Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Our September quarter results continued to be strong, with the revenue growing 5.1% sequentially, to achieve another all-time record at $1.65 billion. September quarter revenue would've been even stronger, but for constraints due to some of our capacity improvements coming in later than we wanted. On a year-over-year basis, our September quarter revenue was up 26%. 
Non-GAAP gross margin was another record of 65.3%, up 50 basis points from 64.8% in the June quarter, and above the high-end of our guidance as we continue to ramp our internal factories and benefit from improved fixed cost absorption, as well as product mix changes. Non-GAAP operating margin was also a record at 42.5%, up 80 basis points from 41.7% in the June quarter and above the high-end of our guidance. 
Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was a split - adjusted record $1.07 per share and was up 37.6% from the year-ago quarter. Adjusted EBITDA at 46.2% of revenue and free cash flow at 32.3% of revenue were both very strong, continuing to demonstrate the robust profitability and cash generation capabilities of our business. This in turn, enabled us to pay down another $415.6 million in debt, and bring our net leverage ratio down to 2.99 in the September quarter. 
With the progress we've already made and progress we expect to continue making in bringing down our debt and leverage ratio, we believe we are well-positioned to achieve an investment grade rating in the coming months. The September quarter marked a 124th consecutive quarter of non-GAAP profitability. 
I would like to thank all our stakeholders who enabled us to achieve these outstanding and record results in the September quarter, and especially thank the worldwide Microchip team, whose tireless efforts not only delivered our strong financial results, but also supported our customers to navigate a difficult supply environment, and who work constructively with our supply chain partners to find creative solutions in an extremely constrained and challenging environment. 
Taking a look at our revenue from a product line perspective, our microcontroller revenue was sequentially down 0.9%, as compared to the June quarter. In part, due to the very strong shipments in the June quarter, when this business was sequentially up 10.7%, and in part due to supply constraints in the September quarter. On a year-over-year basis, our September quarter microcontroller revenue was up 27.1% and microcontroller represented 54.2% of our revenue in the September quarter. 
Our Analog revenue was sequentially up a strong 13.6% as compared to the June quarter, setting another record in the process. On a year-over-year basis, our September quarter analog revenue was up 35.8%. Analog represented 29.8% of our revenue in the September quarter. During the quarter, we completed our acquisition of our Iconic RF, a Belfast, Northern Ireland based small early-stage private Company. 
Iconic RF makes innovative high-performance gallium nitride and gallium arsenide monolithic microwave integrated circuits focus on the aerospace and defense market. And we believe will further strengthen our position in this market. Revenue contribution from Iconic RF is not material. The purchase price was in the mid-single-digit million ranges with possible future performance-based earn-outs. 
This acquisition is akin to acquiring intellectual property along with domain experts to help us accelerate our business agenda in specific laser-focused areas. Taking a look at our revenue from a geographic and end-market perspective, Americas was up 12.5% sequentially, Europe was up 4.8% sequentially, which is better than typical seasonal performance for a September quarter. Asia was up 2.1% sequentially. 
All end-markets were strong and supply-constraint. Business conditions continue to be exceptionally strong through the quarter, with record bookings and backlog s for products to be shipped over multiple quarters. Our Preferred Supply Program, or PSP, continues to grow and be over 50% of our aggregate backlog, and 100% of our backlog in the most constrained capacity product areas. 
Demand far outpaced the capacity improvements and increased shipments we achieved in the quarter. As a result, our unsupported backlog, which customers wanted, shipped in the September quarter, but of which we could not deliver in the September quarter, continued to climb significantly as compared to the prior quarter's level. 
This is the fifth consecutive quarter that our unsupported backlog for product requested in a given quarter has grown, despite our quarterly revenue having grown 26% in the September '21 quarter, as compared to the year-ago quarter. We continue to experience constraints in all of our internal and external factories and their related manufacturing supply chains. 
During the September quarter, we experienced, and were adversely impacted, by COVID -related disruptions in our packaging and testing operations in Asia. As the Delta variant adversely impacted many of these countries. We took additional steps to protect our employees in these countries and worked with our partners as they took mitigation steps. 
We also worked closely with our supply chain partners who provide wafer foundry, assembly, test and materials to secure additional capacity wherever possible. It is a challenging environment for our factories and our partner's factories to hire, train, and retain employees to support the planned manufacturing ramps. 
Despite all this, through all the actions we have taken to increase capacity, we expect we will be in a position to support revenue growth for at least each of the next four quarters. This extends by one more quarter, what we stated in our August conference call, as our September quarter results are now behind us. We now expect that manufacturing constraints will persist through much of 2022 and possibly beyond that. 
We believe our backlog position, especially the proportion of PSP backlog, is giving us a solid foundation to prudently acquire constrained raw materials, invest in expanding our factory capacity, and hire employees to support our factory ramps. Our capital spending plans are rising in response to growth opportunities in our business, as well as to fill gaps in the level of capacity investments being made by our outsourced manufacturing partners in technologies. 
They may consider being trailing edge, but which we believe will be workhorse technologies for us for many years to come. In the September quarter, we were able to secure a license from one of our wafer manufacturing partners for a key trailing edge technology that runs on 8-inch wafers, which we expect to have qualified and in production by 2023. This licensed technology is still growing for us and we expect it will be a workhorse technology for at least 10 to 15 more years. 
We believe our increase in capital spending will enable us to capitalize on growth opportunities, improve our gross margins, increase our market share, and give us more control over our destiny for trailing edge technologies. We will of course, continue to utilize the capacity available from our outsourced partners. But our goal is to be less constrained by their investment priorities in areas where they don't align with our business needs. 
Now let's get into the guidance for the December quarter. Our backlog for the December quarter is very strong and we have more capacity improvements coming into effect. Taking all the factors we have discussed on the call today into consideration, we expect our net sales for the December quarter to be up between 4% and 8% sequentially, much stronger than normal seasonality, which is usually down 2% for the December quarter. 
Our guidance range assumes capacity additions, as well as continued capacity constraints, some of which we expect to work through during the quarter, and others that will carry over to be worked in future quarters. At the midpoint of our revenue guidance, our year-over-year growth for the December quarter will be a strong 29.3%, Accelerating from the 26% year-over-year growth in the September quarter, 19.8% year-over-year growth in the June quarter, and 10.6% year-over-year growth in the March quarter. 
For the December quarter, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 65.8% and 66.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 22.3% and 22.7% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating profit to be between 43.1% and 43.9% of sales, and we expect our split adjusted non-GAAP diluted earnings-per-share to be between a $1.14 per share and a $1.20 per share. 
Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on a non-GAAP basis, except for net sales, which will be on a GAAP basis. 
We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters. And we requested analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call. Finally, as previously announced, we will be holding our Investor and Analyst Day on November 8th and New York, which will also be simultaneously webcast for those who cannot attend in person. 
At the event, we will be providing details about our long-term expected growth rate, updated gross and operating margin targets, as well as more specifics about our strategy for capital return, revenue growth, and manufacturing. We hope you will be able to join us for this important and informative event. Let me now pass the baton to Steve, to talk about our cash return to shareholders. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh. And good afternoon everyone. Today I would like to reflect on our financial results announced today and provide you further updates on our cash return strategy. Reflecting on our financial results, I continue to be very proud of all employees of Microchip that have delivered another exceptional quarter and making new records in many respects. 
Namely: 1. record net sales, 2. record non-GAAP gross margin percentage, 3. record non-GAAP operating margin percentage, 4. record cash flow from operations and 5. record adjusted EBITDA. Reflecting on our journey of debt and leverage ratio since the acquisition of Microsemi, three-plus years ago. I note the following. 
First, we financed the micro semi -acquisition by adding $8.1 billion of debt, which increased our net leverage ratio in the June 2018 quarter to 4.95, which we know was a concern for many of you. In the last three plus years, we have paid down a cumulative $4.4 billion of debt and brought our net leverage ratio down to 2.99. The allocated substantially all of our excess cash generation beyond what we paid to shareholders in dividends to pay down significant debt every quarter. 
Number two, within the last 6 months, based on the debt pay down and the continued strong cash and our Adjusted EBITDA generation of our business, both Moody's and Fitch changed their rating outlook from stable to a positive outlook. And now last quarter with very strong debt pay-down and getting to a leverage ratio of below 3.0, we believe we will receive an investment-grade rating in the coming months. 
Regarding our capital return strategy, we're continuing to provide more cash return to the shareholders. Just today, we announced a dividend of $0.232 per share. Our dividend is reflective of Microchip's 2for1 stock split that was effective last month. This is our fourth consecutive quarter with a large dividend increase, increasing the dividend by 6.2% sequentially, and 25.9% over a year-ago quarter. 
And in the coming quarters, we expect to continue with more actions to increase the cash returned to shareholders. We plan to give you more information about our capital return strategy, next week at our Investor and Analyst Day. We hope to see you all there. With that Operator, will you please poll for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions]. We'll pause just a moment to let everyone an opportunity to signal for questions. We'll take our first question from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
John Pitzer
Yes, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the questions. And congratulations on the solid results. Ganesh, I wanted to get into a little more detail about the difference between your microcontroller business being down sequentially and analog being up. It's -- your down is a lot less than TI s, and your up is a lot more than TI s, but it's the same dynamic that they saw in their September quarter. 
And they highlighted the fact that perhaps, customers were requesting less expedited orders, that there was a little bit of a cooling off. I'm just curious when you look at that gap, what was the big driver in the quarter? And as you look at the December guide, would you expect the microcontroller business to start to show some accelerating growth?
Ganesh Moorthy
It's a great question. I think they are just quarter-to-quarter timing, if you look at our June quarter results, microcontrollers were super strong in that quarter. We had more constraints that hit the microcontroller business in the September quarter. I wouldn't look at anything [Indiscernible] I don't want to one-quarter basis. 
Businesses, microcontroller as well as Analog are doing extremely well and I expect both of them will have nice growth as we go through the December quarter. There is no customer slowdown on one product line and the other product line. They're all constrained, they all have a substantial unsupported exiting the quarters.
John Pitzer
Perfect. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Gary Mobley with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Gary Mobley
Hey, everybody. Thanks for taking my question. I look forward to catching up with everybody next week. I wanted to ask about the backlog, and your ability to fill that backlog over the next 4 consecutive quarters. I appreciate your commentary about how the capital equipment you plan intend to put in place is supportive of four quarters of sequential revenue growth. 
But what is the risk of not receiving the capital equipment because of long lead times, or lead times, or the inability to get desired capacity from partners, And is this roughly 6% sequential revenue growth, supported by more capacity, indicative of how you see it, unwinding for those remaining three quarters or so?
Ganesh Moorthy
So firstly, the 6% growth is a December quarter midpoint of guidance that we have. We're not making predictions for quarters beyond the December quarter. What we do see is enough capacity coming online. We have line of sight to what we're doing internally. We have line of sight to what we are working with our partners, so that we expect that every quarter, for the next four quarters, including December in it, we’ll have the opportunity for supply side growth. 
And right now, there's enough and more demand for all those quarters. It's really a matter of bringing their supply on and we don't see any major risks and being able to bring capacity on. There's always timing of pieces of equipment for a given factory, but that all comprehended in the way we're thinking about it. As we have gone along through this year, almost every month, we've been able to bring on something incremental in the capacity, which is why you've seen every quarter we've been able to show sequential growth in each of the quarters.
Gary Mobley
Appreciate that color Ganesh, with the ability to supply being the main strength of revenue, is it fair to say that over the next four quarters it's going to be hard to build distributor inventory anywhere above the 20-day level roughly where it's at today?
Ganesh Moorthy
We don't know. We expect that it's going to be difficult just judging by what we see as the intensity of the demand, what we see as a sell-through, and what's going on. But it's hard to tell what exactly distributions in the inventory will be that far out in time. I don't know Eric, if you have any more insight?
Eric Bjornholt
I really don't. I mean, just -- and Ganesh mentioned that earlier, but our unsupported backlog, that's -- it's both split between direct and distribution. So distributors would love to have more products and we're just not able to supply at this point in time. So I think it will be challenging, but it's hard to predict.
Gary Mobley
Appreciate it, guys. Thanks.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Vivek Arya with Bank of America Securities, please go ahead.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. There is some debate whether the preferred supplier programs or some of your peers, you call them antsy on our programs, are they ready enforceable or dependable? Because some of your competitors have chosen not to use them as much. So I'm just curious to get your perspective, why there is so much debate on use of these programs? 
What is their enforceability and dependability because ultimately your products are going in end markets that need products from your competitors as well, so those markets are not doing as well, then how enforceable are your contracts? How should we think about the fact you have this PSP backlog as to how dependable the forward outlook is. Thank you.
Ganesh Moorthy
Firstly, I don't know all the different programs different people have and so I won't try to contrast with what we're doing. What we know in talking too many of our key customers, who really by the way drove how we designed and implemented this system, the PSP program, is that it is 1. Seen as highly valuable, 2. That it has grown over time, and 3. It continues to not only be strong, but people want to extend that PSP outlook. 
We have 12 months as our standard backlog requirement for it. There are people placing beyond 12 months, honest. And I think everybody is recognizing that the semiconductor content and the products that they are making are extremely important to their achieving the innovation in their products, their growth objectives, and therefore are much more in the mode of making sure that they have that thought through in the demand they place on us. 
And because it is non - cancellable, I also expect, and I believe every one of them is putting thought into where to have PSP backlog and where not to have PSP backlog, given by the strength of their business and the views they have for their growth.
Vivek Arya
Thank you very much.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Tore Svanberg with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Tore Svanberg
Congratulations on the solid results. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the end markets, especially in relation to delinquencies. Are there any areas where the delinquencies are more or less?
Gary Mobley
It's hard to find one where there is no delinquency at this point. If I judged by the number of customer escalations I get involved in calls that I have to be able to respond to, it's an every segment. Clearly, what the news plays out has a -- got a higher component of automotive.
Ganesh Moorthy
But it's absolutely not the only place where there are constraints. Constraints on an industrial [Indiscernible] communications infrastructure and data center in the home appliances and even in parts of defense and aerospace. And so all end markets are finding that there is needs and there is demand and excess of what they had thought of a year ago. And we see these constraints in all end markets.
Steve Sanghi
I would like to add that automotive tends to have the largest megaphone, so they make the most noise. People think that the constraints are the biggest in automotive. That is definitely not true. We're seeing similar constraints in the industrial market and consumer markets and other places, but just automotive gets talked about more.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Prajib Rahmani with UBS, please go ahead.
Prajib Rahmani
Hi, congratulations, great quarter. Thanks for taking my question. I had a little bit more of a longer-term question. I guess, a lead time for at least the 32-bit MCU seem to be still stretching and they’re well beyond 22 weeks is what I'm hearing. 
But if you look into 2022, how would you sort of paint the picture for investors around where -- I mean, where lead times had to buy, say, mid-2022? Do you get a sense that in the current market scenario that lead times might not compress much at all in 2022, or can you help us gauge that a little bit more?
Ganesh Moorthy
There are two sides of that equation. There's one side of that equation which is supply, and the other side of that equation is demand. If you look a year ago where we were, to where we are today, despite having brought significant supply online, we are farther behind in terms of the constraint or the unsupported that we have. And that's because demand grew even faster than the supply did. 
I don't know how 2022 is demand picture, and we have a good sense of our own supply and what we're doing. But how the demand picture will change and when that will change, I don't know. But at this point in time, if you judge by how much unsupported did we have every quarter, exiting each quarter, we've had five quarters in a row where we produced more, but had more unsupported exiting the quarter. And I am fully expecting that exiting December, it will be the 6th consecutive quarter where that's going to happen.
Prajib Rahmani
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Matt Ramsay with Cowen. Please go ahead.
Matt Ramsay
Thank you very much, guys. Good afternoon. I wanted to ask a little bit about the pricing environment and that's been topical given the big supply-demand imbalance in the industry. Ganesh, maybe you could talk a little bit about the comments that you made about having support for growth over the next four quarters from here. 
How much of that is based on supp