Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call November  5, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Steve Sanghi - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ganesh Moorthy - President and Chief Operating Officer
Eric Bjornholt - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO 
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Craig Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley
William Stein - Truist Securities
Shawn Harrison - Loop Capital
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Janet Ramkissoon - Quadra Capital
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
David O’Connor - Exane BNP Paribas
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Microchip's Second Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results. As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Microchip's, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Steve Sanghi. Please go ahead sir.
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip’s business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip’s President and COO; and, Eric Bjornholt, Microchip’s CFO. I will first comment on our CEO transition and Board appointments. Eric will then comment on our second quarter financial performance, and Ganesh will then give his comments on the results. I will then discuss the current business environment as well as our guidance. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
So let me begin by commenting on the CEO transition announced today and the addition of Board members. Today we announce that I will transition to an Executive Chair role, effective March 1 2021. Microchip's current President, Ganesh Moorthy will step into the role of President and CEO effective March 1, 2021. Ganesh will also join the Board of Directors effective January 4, 2021.
I joined Microchip in February 1990 as Senior Vice President of Operations and was promoted to President to lead this company in July 1990. Microchip then had sales of about $60 million and it was losing about $10 million per year. The main product line at that time was commodity eCom and the gross margin of the company was about 30%. The turnaround of the company was documented in my book Driving Excellence: How The Aggregate System Turned Microchip from a Failing Company to a Market Leader.
We took Microchip public in March of 1993 with annual sales of $89 million and a market capitalization of $85 million. In the last 27 years as a public company, Microchip's net sales grew to $5.2 billion and its market capitalization grew to approximately $30 billion.
Today Microchip produces industry leading gross and operating margins. Since its IPO, Microchip's stock price has grown approximately 20,000% excluding dividends. Microchip has also completed its 120th consecutive quarter of profitability on a non-GAAP basis.
In the last 30 years, Microchip transformed from a small company focused on nonvolatile memory products to an embedded solutions powerhouse with a broad and innovative range of solutions, as well as leadership positions in the industrial data center, automotive, communications, consumer and aerospace and defense markets.
We have also been an industry consolidator having acquired about 20 companies including well-known industry names like Silicon Storage Technology, Standard Micro Systems, Micra, Atmel and Microsemi. All of the acquired companies were successfully integrated into Microchip's business and created outstanding value for the stockholders of Microchip.

Leading Microchip for the last 30 years has been the greatest privilege of my 42 years in the semiconductor industry. I turned 65 in July of this year. I often thought about transitioning to an Executive Chair role by that date. I discussed this with our Board of Directors as part of our succession planning process earlier this year but no decision was made at that time. Then given the unexpected COVID-19 pandemic, the Board and I thought it was best to delay any transition so that it would not occur during a very turbulent and unpredictable time.
I have now decided that the time is right to make this change. The overall decision was made easier given that Microchip has someone as qualified as Ganesh to assume the CEO role and given the strength of the rest of our management team.
I have known Ganesh for 39 years since hiring him as a new college graduate at Intel in 1981. He has a demonstrated track record of success. And our proven partnership over the last 19 years at Microchip makes him my logical successor. He is an energetic articulate and thoughtful leader who is widely respected amongst our customers, partners, suppliers, investors and analysts as well as the entire Microchip employee base.
Ganesh joined a Microchip in 2001 and served as the Vice President of multiple business units. In 2006, he was promoted to Executive Vice President with extended business unit and manufacturing responsibilities and assumed the role of Chief Operating Officer in 2009. Ganesh has served as President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2016. Since then, Ganesh and I have jointly led Microchip.
Now starting March 1, 2021 Ganesh will become the President and CEO of Microchip I will remain as an Executive Chairman. I will work with Ganesh to continue to drive the strategic direction of this company and maintain a strong culture and succession planning that we have developed here.
We also announced today that starting January 4, 2021, Karen Rapp will join the Board of Directors of Microchip and will also join its Audit Committee. Karen is no stranger to the technology investment community. She's currently the CFO of National Instruments. She also serves on the Board of Plexus, which is a contract manufacturer. Karen brings with her extensive large company -- large public company experience and significant leadership accomplishments in financial management, financial governance, information technology and cybersecurity. We are all very pleased to have Karen join our Board.
I will now pass this call to Eric Bjornholt and he will cover the earnings part of this conference call. Eric? 
Eric Bjornholt
Thanks, Steve, and good afternoon everyone. We are including information in our press release in this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website.
We will now go through some of the operating results including net sales, gross margin and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release.
Net sales in the September quarter were $1.31 billion, which was flat sequentially and above the high-end of our narrowed guidance range from September 9, 2020 when net sales were expected to be down between 2% and 6% sequentially. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales as well as end market demand by product line and geography on our website for your reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were very strong and near-record levels at 62.2%.

Operating expenses were at 23% and operating income was an outstanding 39.2%, all better than the high-end of our revised guidance from September 9. Our factory underutilization charges decreased from $13.9 million to $12.2 million sequentially as we started to ramp our factories to respond to the stronger-than-expected business conditions. We expect the continued ramp of our factories to lead to lower underutilization charges in the December quarter.
Non-GAAP net income was $416.4 million. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.56, $0.15 above the midpoint of our guidance and $0.10 above the high-end of our guidance from September 9. On a GAAP basis in the September quarter, gross margins were 61.7% and include the impact of $6 million of share-based compensation expense. Total operating expenses were $581.7 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $232.9 million, special charges of $4.3 million, $0.7 million of acquisition-related and other costs and share-based compensation of $43.7 million. The GAAP net income was $73.6 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
Our September quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors including tax reserve releases associated with the statute of limitations expiring, offset by tax reserve accruals associated with developments of the Altera court case during the period, deferred tax impacts of an active changes in tax law occurring during the period, deferred tax impacts of our convertible debt exchange transactions occurring during the period and other matters. Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 5% in the September quarter. We expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal 2021 to be about 5.5% exclusive of the transition tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring the Microsemi operations into the Microchip global structure and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
We have many tax attributes and net operating losses and tax credits as well as U.S. interest deductions that we believe will keep our cash tax payments low. The remaining cash tax payments associated with the transition tax are expected to be about $221 million and will be paid over the next five years. We have posted a schedule of our projected transition tax payments on the Investor Relations page of our website.
Our inventory balance at September 30, 2020 was $661.4 million. We had 120 days of inventory at the end of the September quarter, up three days from the prior quarter's level and primarily a result of our strong gross margin performance. Inventory at our distributors in the September quarter were at 30 days, which was flat to the prior quarter. We believe distribution inventory levels for Microchip are still low compared to the historical range we have experienced over the past 10 years which is between 27 and 47 days.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $455.8 million in the September quarter. As of September 30, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $370.3 million. We paid down $331.1 million of total debt in the September quarter.
Over the last nine full quarters since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion of debt to do so, we have paid down $2.95 billion of the debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our cash, excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down this debt. We have accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this period which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business as well as our ongoing operating discipline.
We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several quarters. In the September quarter, we also exchanged $796.1 million of our 2025 and 2027 convertible senior subordinated notes for cash and shares of common stock. While these transactions did not impact the overall level of debt on our balance sheet, we believe that these convertible exchanges will benefit stockholders by significantly reducing the share count dilution to the extent our stock price appreciates over time.

Our adjusted EBITDA in the September quarter was $566.7 million and our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was $2.181 billion. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA excluding our very long-dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and is more equity-like in nature was 4.04 at September 30, 2020, down from 4.24 at June 30, 2020. Our dividend payment in the September quarter was $95.3 million.
Capital expenditures were $6.3 million in the September 2020 quarter. We expect about $35 million in capital spending in the December quarter and overall capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 to be between $110 million and $120 million. Our capital expenditure forecast for fiscal 2021 has increased as we prepare for growth in our business as well as actions we are taking to increase our internal capacity in the face of constraints our outsourcing partners are experiencing, which Ganesh will talk more about.
We continue to add capital to maintain and operate our internal manufacturing operations, support the production capabilities of new products and technologies as well as to selectively bring in-house some of the wafer fabrication, assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect these capital investments will bring gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control over our destiny during periods of industry-wide constraints. Depreciation expense in the September quarter was $39 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the September quarter. Ganesh?
Ganesh Moorthy
Thank you, Eric and good afternoon, everyone. Let's start by taking a closer look at microcontrollers. In a weaker than normal macro environment, our microcontroller revenue performed better than we expected. Our microcontroller revenue was sequentially down 1.8%, as compared to the June quarter, on a year-over-year basis our microcontroller revenue was up 0.8%. Microcontrollers overall represented 53.7% of our revenue in the September quarter.
Now moving to analog. Our analog revenue was sequentially down 2.3% as compared to the June quarter. On a year-over-year basis, our analog revenue was down 8.2%. The weaker year-over-year performance of our analog revenue as compared to our microcontroller revenue was primarily due to our product lines which originated from Microsemi, which had higher exposure to Huawei, the communications end market in general, the commercial aviation market and the space market. Analog represented 27.6% of our revenue in the September quarter.
Our FPGA revenue was up 24.8% sequentially as compared to the June quarter and achieved an all-time record even going back to the Microsemi history. On a year-over-year basis our FPGA revenue was up 16.3%. I would like to caution investors that although the FPGA revenue trajectory is positive, the revenue does have some lumpiness associated with it because of the large exposure to the aerospace market. FPGA represented 8.3% of our revenue in the September quarter.
Our licensing, memory and other business, which we refer to as LMO was flat in revenue as compared to the June quarter. LMO represented 10.4% of our revenue in the September quarter.
In October, we completed the acquisition of two small private companies. The first acquisition was New Zealand-based Tekron International, a global leader of timekeeping technologies and solutions for smart grid and other industrial applications.
Timing is an operational necessity for real-time smart grid management and monitoring. Modernization, complexity and cybersecurity challenges within the power utilities at driving the need for more precise, secure and reliable time. Acquiring Tekron enables us to expand our offering for the expanding smart energy and industrial markets.

The second acquisition was Toronto-based LegUp Computing, whose high level synthesis tool expands our FPGA edge compute solution stack to make it easier for software engineers to harness the algorithm accelerating power of Microchip's PolarFire FPGA and PolarFire system-on-chip platforms.
The LegUp acquisition also complements the Vector Blocks acquisition, we made a year ago, which added domain expertise in the areas of machine learning algorithms and vector processing for edge compute applications.
Tekron and LegUp were very small tuck-in acquisitions, more akin to acquiring intellectual property along with domain experts to help us accelerate our business agenda in specific laser-focused areas. Both acquisitions were valued in the mid-single-digit millions of dollars and hence not material to the rate at which we're paying down our debt. The two acquisitions are expected to add less than $1 million of revenue in the December quarter.
In mid-September for the U.S. Department of Commerce regulation, we stopped all shipments to Huawei. Our Huawei originated revenue represents about 1% to 2% of Microchip's overall revenue and was sequentially down from the June quarter to the September quarter. We are working with the Department of Commerce to apply for licenses, for products and technologies that we believe have no impact to U.S. national security interest. We do not know if, or when such licenses may be granted. Therefore, we have no Huawei revenue in our December quarter guidance that Steve will provide.
During the September quarter, we began to experience rising constraints in our supply chain due to a number of industry-wide factors. Among them, Huawei's push throughout the supply chain to complete manufacturing of all their products prior to the shipment ban; competition for market share by Huawei's competitors seeking to replace them which further stressed the supply chain; and ongoing shift of semiconductor manufacturing out of China to avoid tariffs and trade sanctions, pressuring the capacity in other Asian countries, where we manufacture through our partners; a very significant mobile phone refresh cycle which competes for the same outsourced capacity we used; and last but not least, the rising demand from the automotive industrial and consumer markets which we saw.
The confluence of these factors created supply chain constraints which are continuing into the December quarter. At times like this, we are fortunate to have our internal factory capabilities and we are making strategic capacity investments as we seek to better position our business for growth.
Given the current market dynamics, we are providing some qualitative trend insights into our principal end markets for the September quarter. As expected we saw the automotive industrial and consumer home appliance markets start their recovery. Medical devices for elective procedures like hearing aids, pacemakers et cetera, which experienced a slowdown in the June quarter as individuals and hospitals delayed elective procedures, also started the recovery in the September quarter.
As expected, we also saw the work-from-home related markets of computing and data center, as well as medical devices for hospitals, revert to more normal demand patterns as the surge we saw in the June quarter dissipated. In general, enterprise demand remains weak as most businesses remain predominantly with work-from-home policies, thus deferring enterprise spending for the office environment.
Finally before I hand off to Steve, I would like to take the opportunity to express my deep gratitude to Steve and to the Microchip Board of Directors for the responsibility being entrusted in me when the baton gets handed next March. As we all know, Steve will be leaving big shoes to fill with an impeccable 30-year history as CEO of Microchip.

Yet the partnership we have forged over many years of working together, in addition to the support of our long-tenured executive team at Microchip gives me confidence to lead the next phase of Microchip. I would especially like to thank Steve for being my mentor and my partner through the many years that we have engaged business challenges and opportunities together and for everything I've been privileged to learn from him. I am particularly glad and thankful that Microchip and I can count on his continued support and advice in his executive chair role. Thank you once again Steve.
Let me now pass it to Steve for comments about our business and our guidance going forward. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh. Today, I would like to first reflect on the results of the fiscal second quarter of 2021. I will then provide guidance for the fiscal third quarter of 2021. The September quarter continued to demonstrate what the best of Microchip culture and its people represent. Our global team of operations, business units, sales and marketing and support groups, all came together in the middle of a global pandemic, while working with a pay cut and delivered a superb quarter.
Despite the COVID-19 pandemic challenges, we delivered net sales of $1.31 billion that was essentially flat sequentially and down only 2% from the year ago quarter. This is compared to our net sales guidance which was to be down 4% sequentially at the midpoint as we capitalize on strong terms opportunities in September. We also delivered outstanding non-GAAP gross margin of 62.2% which were near an all-time record level. We also achieved non-GAAP operating margin of 39.2% above the high end of our guidance.
Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was $1.56, $0.15 above the midpoint of our guidance. Our bookings were very strong in the September quarter. We began the September quarter with a backlog position on July 1 to be down 8% from the backlog for June quarter on April 1. With strong bookings and strong churns fill in the quarter, we ended the quarter at essentially flat compared to minus 4% as the midpoint of our guidance.
Now I will discuss our guidance for the December quarter. Our bookings have remained strong in October. We are seeing a good recovery in the automotive, industrial, home appliance and medical devices for elective procedures markets.
At the same time work-from-home related markets of computing and data centers, as well as certain medical devices that surged with the pandemic revert to more normal demand. There is one other factor that we have to account for in our guidance for the December quarter and that is the Huawei effect. Huawei was over 1% customer in the September quarter and it will be zero in the December quarter.
Taking all these factors into consideration, we expect our net sales for the December quarter to be between flat to up 5% sequentially. Considering that seasonally December quarter is down by approximately 2% to 3% and counting minus 1% Huawei effect, we believe that our guidance is well above seasonal and represents multiple industries recovering as well as Microchip continuing to gain market share in multiple end markets and product lines.
Investors and analysts have asked us in the last few months about making a call about the bottom of this cycle. With tremendous uncertainty about COVID-19 situation and the elections, we have not been willing to make the call. Today we are making that call. We expect that June and September quarters were the bottom for this business cycle for Microchip. We are guiding to a much stronger than seasonal December quarter and we expect significant growth in calendar year 2021.
Based on the much better-than-expected financial results in the September quarter, we gave our employees half of their September quarter salary sacrifice back in the form of a bonus. We have also been gradually lowering the percentage of salary sacrifice.

And just yesterday, the Board of Directors approved the entire company to revert back to full salary later this month. These salary changes are dialed into our guidance that we are providing today. We thank all of our employees worldwide that have traveled this journey of shared salary sacrifice with us in the past three quarters, enabling us to be prepared for multiple contingencies as COVID-19 uncertainties unfolded. This represents the best of Microchip culture and the commitment of our employees to ensure the long-term success of the company.
For December quarter, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 62.4% and 62.8% of sales which will be a new all-time record. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 23.1% and 23.7% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating profit to be between 38.7% and 39.7% of sales. We expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $1.51 per share to $1.63 per share.
We also expect to pay down another approximately $300 million of our debt in the December quarter. We continue to believe in the strength and diversity of the businesses and end markets we are in, to achieve long-term growth in excess of the average semiconductor market growth.
I would like to advice investors and analysts about one other change. In the past, we have been providing a mid-quarter update, often to coincide with our presentation at sell-side financial conferences. Our peers and competitors typically do not provide a mid-quarter update. Beginning this quarter we will discontinue this practice and no longer plan to provide such updates.
Given all of the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles restructuring charges and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on non-GAAP basis, except for net sales, which will be on a GAAP basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters and we request that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call. With this, operator, will you please poll for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO. Please, go ahead.
Ambrish Srivastava
Thank you. Steve, congratulations and you'll be missed and Ganesh congratulations to you as well. I guess you'll have to take over Steve's role to keep us on our toes when we get on this call to ask a question.
Ganesh Moorthy
It's a hard act to follow.
Ambrish Srivastava
I know, big shoes to fill, but we'd be expecting you to. Two questions for me. One is on the constrained side. Could you just help us understand how has that translated into lead times? And then, if you didn't have the constraints, how much of the business or what would the guidance have been? And then the second question is -- maybe Eric can help us on this one is on the capacity side.
So a lot of moving parts there, so what was the -- what has been the outsourced versus in-source both, front end, back end? And then the CapEx increase, what should we be expecting both those two to be? And then how is that going to impact gross margin? Thanks.
Ganesh Moorthy
Do you want to take the lead time Steve?
Steve Sanghi
No. Go ahead. Take it.
Ganesh Moorthy
So on lead times, the vast majority of our line items still have a four-to-eight week type of lead times for standard products. There are specific package combinations that do have longer lead times.
What is happening is for the factors that I described, it is eating into multiple layers of the supply chain, so into the packaging and some of the subassembly involved in the packaging and into the testing infrastructure, as many of these things come together at the same time.

So we don't have huge issues with supply issues, but we have spot issues with specific package product combinations, where they are. But by and large, for the vast majority of our products we still have pretty good lead times. Go ahead, Eric.
Eric Bjornholt
Okay. The second piece of your question was there -- it was kind of multifaceted there, but we've got some capacity questions. So we are making investments as we walked through in our prepared remarks, in wafer fab, assembly and tests to increase our capacity. And if you look at last quarter, we had about 39% of our wafer fab in-house, 47% of our assembly and about 54% of our test.
These are relatively slow-moving metrics, even with making investments. But over time we absolutely would expect the assembly and test percentages to go up, as we make these investments. But again they're relatively, slow-moving metrics. But the investments that we're making are all gross margin accretive.
And you can see that our gross margin we're guiding up in the current quarter. And we are expecting lower underutilization charges in the current quarter, as we ramp our factories. And all these incremental, adds to capacity that we're making whether its fab assembly or test, should all add to gross margin benefits for us down the road.
Ambrish Srivastava
But unable to quantify at this point Eric, as to how to think about the longer term -- not the gross margin, what would the steady-state assembly and test would look like and front end would look like, in-source versus outsource?
Eric Bjornholt
So again, I don't expect the wafer fab to move significantly, in terms of the percentage that we do in versus outsource. As the business grows obviously, we're making investments. On the assembly and test side, we do expect those percentages to go up. Ganesh, do you want to give a comment on, where you think they can go over time?
Ganesh Moorthy
Yeah. They move a little