Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call August  4, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Eric Bjornholt – Chief Financial Officer
Ganesh Moorthy – President and Chief Operating Officer
Steve Sanghi – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Conference Call Participants
Vivek Arya – Bank of America Securities
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Ambrish Srivastava – BMO
Craig Hettenbach – Morgan Stanley
Harsh Kumar – Piper Sandler
Shawn Harrison – Loop Capital
Gary Mobley – Wells Fargo securities
Chris Caso – Raymond James
Raji Gill – Needham and Company
William Stein – SunTrust
Chris Danely – Citigroup
Harlan Sur – JPMorgan
Vijay Rakesh – Mizuho
Christopher Rolland – Susquehanna
David O’Connor – Exane BNP Paribas
Craig Ellis – B. Riley FBR
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Microchip’s First Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. As a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Microchip’s Chief Financial Officer, Eric Bjornholt. Please go ahead, sir.
Eric Bjornholt
Thanks, Brandon, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip’s business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are Steve Sanghi, Microchip’s Chairman and CEO; and Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip’s President and COO. I will comment on our first quarter financial performance, and Steve and Ganesh will then give their comments on the results, and discuss the current business environment as well as our guidance. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We are including information in our press release and this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and leverage metrics on our website.
I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses, prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release.
Net sales in the June quarter were $1.31 billion, which was down 1.3% sequentially and above the midpoint of our upwardly revised guidance from June 2, 2020, when net sales were expected to be flat to down 6% sequentially. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales as well as end market demand by product line and geography on our website for your reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were strong at 61.7%, operating expenses were at 23.1% and operating income was an outstanding 38.6%, all better than the high end of our upperly revised guidance.
Non-GAAP net income was $401.9 million, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $1.56 and $0.03 above the high-end of our upperly revised guidance from June 2nd. On a GAAP basis in the June quarter, gross margins were 61% and include the impact of $6.4 million of share-based compensation and $2.8 million of COVID-19 shelter-in-place restrictions on manufacturing activities.
Total operating expenses were $580 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $235.4 million, special charges of $0.3 million, $6 million of acquisition-related and other costs, and share based compensation of $36 million. The GAAP net income was $123.6 million, or $0.48 per diluted share. Our June quarter GAAP tax benefit was impacted by a variety of factors, including tax reserve releases associated with the statute of limitation expiring, deferred tax adjustments related to intercompany movements of intellectual property rights, offset by tax reserve accruals associated with the outcome of the Altera case during the period and other matters.

The non-GAAP cash tax rate was 6% in the June quarter. We expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal 2021 to be about 6%, exclusive of the transition tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring the Microsemi operations into Microchip global structure and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years. We have many tax attributes and net operating losses and tax credits as well as U.S. tax interest deductions that we believe will keep our cash tax payments low. The cash tax payments beyond the June 2020 quarter associated with the transition tax are expected to be about $245 million and will be paid out over the next six years, including a payment that we made in July 2020 of $23.2 million.
We have posted a schedule of our projected transition tax payments on the Investor Relations page of our website. Our inventory balance at June 30, 2020 was $657.2 million. We had 117 days of inventory at the end of the June quarter, which was down five days from the prior quarter’s level and right in the middle of our publicly stated inventory target of 115 to 120 days. Inventory at our distributors in the June quarter were 30 days compared to 29 days at the end of March. We believe distribution inventory levels for Microchip are still low compared to the historical range we have experienced over the past 10 years, which is between 27 and 47 days.
The cash flow from operating activities was $501.8 million in the June quarter. As of June 30th, the consolidated cash and total investment position was $380.2 million. We paid down $394 million of total debt in the June quarter and over the last eight full quarters, since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion of debt to do so. We have paid down $2.62 billion of debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down this debt.
We have accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business, as well as our ongoing operating discipline. We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years. Our adjusted EBITDA in the June quarter was $562.2 million and our trailing 12 month adjusted EBITDA was $2.154 billion. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA, excluding our very long dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and is more equity life in nature was 4.24 at the end of June 2020 down from 4.46 at the end of March 2020.
Our dividend payment in the June quarter was $90.4 million. Capital expenditures were $9.5 million in the June 2020 quarter. We expect about $15 million in capital spending in the September quarter and overall capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 to be between $50 million and $70 million. We continue to add capital to maintain and operate our internal manufacturing operations, support the production capabilities for new products and technologies as well as to selectively bring in-house some of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced. We expect these capital investments will bring some gross margin improvement to our business, particularly for the outsourced Atmel and Microsemi manufacturing activities that we are bringing into our own factories. Depreciation expense in the June quarter was $41.1 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the June quarter. Ganesh?
Ganesh Moorthy
Great. Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Let’s start by taking a closer look at microcontrollers. In a weak macro environment, our microcontroller business performed better than we expected. On a GAAP basis, our microcontroller revenue was sequentially down 1.3% as compared to the March quarter, while from an end market demand standpoint, our microcontroller business was sequentially down 2.8%. On a GAAP year-over-year basis, our microcontroller business was up 1.2%.

We continue to introduce a steady stream of innovative new microcontroller solutions, including the industry’s smallest automotive grade maXTouch controller family, the first functional safety ready, AVR microcontroller family with a peripheral touch controller, the Switchtec advanced fabric generation – Generation 4 PCIe switch family, which enables complex fabric topologies with greater scalability, lower latency and higher performance and traditional PCIe switches.
And last but not least, the Adaptec SmartRAID 3100E RAID, which stands for redundant ray of inexpensive disk adapters designed to provide reliable hardware RAID protection for customer data in cost sensitive end applications that require no power and high performance. Microcontrollers overall represented 54.9% of our end market demand in the June quarter.
Now moving to analog. On a GAAP basis, our analog revenue was sequentially up 0.7% as compared to the March quarter. While from an end market standpoint, our analog business is sequentially down 0.7%. In both scenarios, our analog business performed better than we expected in the midst of a weak macro environment. On a GAAP year-over-year basis, our analog business was down 4.2%. During the quarter, we continue to announce and introduce a steady stream of innovative analog products, including an expanded portfolio of over 25 transient voltage suppressor vertical rays, and a 32 channel high-voltage analog multiplexion, further enabling miniaturization of medical ultrasound applications. Analog represented 28.1% of our end-market demand in the June quarter.
Our FPGA revenue, on a GAAP basis, was down 10.3% sequentially as compared to the March quarter. From an end-market demand standpoint, our FPGA business was sequentially down 6.5%. Our FPGA business in the June quarter had one significant aerospace customer who were shut down hard due to COVID-19 restrictions for pretty much the entire quarter, resulting in lower-than-expected results. Despite this customer being unlikely to resume production in the September quarter, we are expecting the FPGA business to sequentially grow meaningfully in the September quarter.
On a GAAP year-over-year basis, our FPGA business was down 4.6%. During the quarter, we continued to introduce a steady stream of innovative FPGA products, including the vector blocks accelerator software development kit, which enables developers to take advantage of Microchip’s all fire FPGAs to easily create low-power neuro network applications. FPGA represented 6.7% of our end-market demand in the June quarter.
Our licensing, memory and other product line, which we refer to as LMO, was flat as compared to the March quarter from an end-market demand standpoint. During the quarter, we introduced a new Phase Noise Analyzer, designed for engineers and scientists who rely on precise and accurate measurements of frequency signals generated for 5G networks, data centers, commercial and military aircraft systems, space vehicle, communication satellite and metrology applications.
LMO represented 10.4% of our end-market demand in the June quarter. An update regarding coronavirus and its impact on our operations. Most of our nonfactory employee base continues to work from home. Our global teams have been highly engaged, collaborative and productive under the circumstances, resulting in strong customer engagement for new designs and effectiveness in our new product development programs. We would like to thank our teams worldwide for adapting as needed to changing conditions while continuing to deliver results.
Our manufacturing operations, especially those in the Philippines and our outsourced partners in Malaysia, worked through various constraints throughout the June quarter and delivered increased output as reflected in our better-than-expected results. By the end of the June quarter, we had dug out of most of the delinquencies in our shipments that accumulated in April and May when unpredictable constraints from government mandates were in effect. Our customers and our supply chain partners also endure some constraints of their factories and logistics, primarily during the month of April and May.

As we progress through May and June, we experienced many short lead time orders from customers, some of which we could not support in the quarter, primarily due to three factors: First, customers whose business has strengthened due to COVID-19 conditions like from work-from-home initiatives and medical devices; second, the partial recovery in May and June of some customers’ business, which experienced a sharp decline in the March-April time frame automotive being the biggest example of that in some industrials; and third, an unrealistic expectations from some customers that orders placed with short lead time can be supported by the slack in the supply chain.
We are working with our customers to improve the visibility of their backlog so that we may serve them better. Given the current market dynamics, we are providing some qualitative insights into our principal end markets. Now before we provide commentary for the June quarter, we would first like to share with you our best estimate for our fiscal year 2020 revenue by end market, with over 120,000 customers served by Microchip and given the complexity of our customer base, it is laborious to collect this data, and we only do so every few years. We remind you that this data is only estimated, and it is not something we can track with high accuracy.
Based on our analysis done in the June quarter for the fiscal year 2020 revenue, industrial remained our largest end market of 28% of revenue. Computing and data center was next at 18% of revenue, followed by automotive, 15% of revenue. Communications at 14% of revenue, consumer at 13%; and finally aerospace and defense at 12% of revenue.
With that backdrop to provide context, here are some end-market trend insights for the June quarter that we’d like to share with you. Data center and computing continued to show strength from the shift to work-from-home requirements. However, we anticipate that these segments may revert to more normal demand patterns in the coming months as the search requirements start to dissipate.
Automotive car sales and production in China recovered nicely to grow, sequentially, and year-over-year, benefiting our China automotive business. Our automotive business everywhere else had a very poor quarter as April and May were adversely impacted by widespread automotive factory shutdowns. We began to see recovery in June and believe that the worst for automotive is behind us.
Medical devices necessary to treat COVID patients, like ventilators, respirators, oxygen monitors, portable ultrasound machines. They were all strong, in addition to a host of other hospital equipment needed for increased patient loans. Medical devices for elective procedures such as hearing aids, pacemakers, defibrillators, some of the large ultrasound MRI machines, those experienced a slowdown as individuals and hospitals delayed elective procedures.
Even within the broad-based industrial and consumer markets, which were generally weak, we did see pockets of strength related to COVID-19. In consumer, the strengths that are related to gaming, home improvement and hobbyist projects for people shelter at home. In industrial, the strengths were related to UV disinfection system, air filtration systems, infrared temperature scanners and a generally increasing trend towards touch rate controls.
Let me now pass it to Steve for comments about our business and our guidance going forward. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I would like to first reflect on the results of the fiscal first quarter of 2021, I will then provide guidance for then provide guidance for the fiscal second quarter of 2021. The June quarter demonstrated what the best of Microchip culture and its people represent our global team of operations, business units, sales and marketing and support groups all came together in the middle of a global pandemic, while working with a take cut and delivered a superb quarter. I’m proud of how rapidly the Microchip team adapted to the new constraints we faced so that our employees would be safe, our customers could be well served and our supply chain partners engaged to help ensure mutual success despite the challenges we faced. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic challenges, we delivered net sales of $1.31 billion that was down only 1.3%, sequentially and down only 1% from the year ago quarter. Our original net sales guidance was to be down 6%, sequentially, at the midpoint.

In early June, we revised it to be down 3%, sequentially, at the midpoint, and we ended at down only 1.3%, sequentially. These are exceptional results against the backdrop of simultaneous supply and demand dislocations. We also delivered outstanding non-GAAP gross margin of 61.7%, 90 basis points above the midpoint of our original guidance from May 7, 2020 and non-GAAP operating margin of 38.6%, 260 basis points above the midpoint of our original guidance.
And we did all this while reducing our days of inventory from 122 days to 117 days. I am particularly proud of producing 38.6% operating margin at near the bottom of the business cycle amidst a global pandemic. Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was $1.56, $0.21 above the midpoint of our original guidance and $0.12 above the midpoint of our revised guidance.
On a non-GAAP basis, this was also our 119th consecutive profitable quarter. In the June quarter, we paid down $394 million of our debt. Our total debt payment since the end of June 2018 has been about $2.62 billion bringing our net leverage ratio down to 4.24. The pace of debt payments has been strong, despite the weak and uncertain business conditions, underlying the strong – underlining the strong cash generation characteristics of our business as well as our active efforts to continue to squeeze working capital efficiencies.
Now I will discuss our guidance for the September quarter after a strong March and April, our bookings were soft in May and June. But the bookings we received in May and June had a much higher mix of near-term requirements as the customers and distributors did not have the visibility to place longer-term orders. While the near-term aged to bookings filled up the June quarter, it left the September quarter backlog on July 1, 2020, to be down 8% compared to the backlog for June quarter on April 1, 2020.
We also left a large amount of backlog unsupported out of the June quarter because those requirements came inside of our lead time and we were not able to ship them according to customer request aids. This all prompted us to write a letter to our customers and distributors, first informing them of the business environment and our cycle time to build their products. Then we ask them to place at least 12 weeks of backlog for their requirements. We also informed our customers and distributors that if they ask for expediting of an order, we would need to charge an expedite service fee given the disruptive nature of such orders.
Through the letter, we are just trying to encourage customers to give us more visibility so that we can better meet their requirements. The expedite charges have never been material in terms of our overall revenue. With another month under our belt now since the letter, we have seen some of the customers and distributors respond the rate of bookings has increased. Our backlog for the September quarter is still well below the backlog for June quarter at the same point in time, but we believe that the stronger bookings now compared to weak bookings of May and June will continue to improve the September quarter backlog compared to June quarter.
From an end-market standpoint, as you heard during Ganesh’s remarks, we have several cross currents, contributing strengths and weaknesses at the same time. The common denominator among them is whether COVID-19 was a tailwind or a headwind during the quarter for a given end market. The diversity of our end-market exposure, which we consider to be a strength, gives us the ability to capitalize on whatever strength there are during challenging market conditions.
Taking all these factors into consideration, we expect our net sales the September quarter to be between flat to down 8% sequentially. A relatively broad guidance range is to help account for the lack of visibility and uncertainty associated with the evolving COVID-19 situation. Based on the much better-than-expected financial results in the June quarter, we gave our employees half of their June quarter salary sacrifice back in the form of a bonus. However, we have maintaining the salary cuts in the September quarter due to continued uncertainty. Our inventory at 117 days is now right in the middle of our 115 to 120 days target. Hence, we are also adjusting the factory schedules and removing the rotating time off.

For September quarter, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 61.2% and 62.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between then 23.2% and 24.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating profit percentage to be between 37% and 39% of sales. We expect non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $1.30 per share to $1.52 per share. We also expect to pay down another approximately $300 million of our debt in the September quarter.
We believe that despite the near term pandemic-driven challenges, we are confident in the strength and diversity of the businesses and end markets we are in to achieve long-term growth in excess of the average semiconductor market growth. Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on non-GAAP basis except for net sales, which will be on GAAP basis. We believe that GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters, and we request that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call.
With this, operator, will you please poll for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Vivek Arya with Bank of America Securities. Please go ahead.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. Steve, I think you mentioned bookings somewhat improved in July. Historically, what do August and September bookings do? And what are your assumptions in giving guidance for this quarter? Are you assuming that the bookings trend kind of stays where it is? Does it get better? Does it get worse? I’m just trying to frame the guidance versus some historical trends and what your assumptions are for what the environment does in the remaining months of the quarter?
Steve Sanghi
So Vivek, first thing I would say is that you should not really be looking at any past trends, because this is just not a normal environment. Our bookings and backlogs and expedites and customer requests are really all driven by end market by end market, what the effect of COVID-19 is and what the visibility of the customers and distributors are. So really just absolutely – bookings in a quarter would be stronger if you go into it with a weaker backlog and the bookings often will be – in turns would be lower if you have a strong backlog that all depends on lead time and visibility. So we went into the start of this quarter with basically – dramatically decreased visibility by our distributors and customers.
Therefore, we started the quarter with a very, very weak backlog. If you recall, the June quarter, we started the June quarter on April 1 with a very strong backlog. From – coming from March and the turn of China from the new Chinese New Year and all that. And then the bookings during the June quarter actually declined through May and June, which was a reverse of what happens in a normal year because June is a very strong quarter and bookings accelerate from April to May to June, it was totally different this time.
So again, in July, August and September, July bookings were up significantly from the June run rate. June was very low and August is just starting. But looking at just a couple of days of bookings, for August, they’re also pretty good and even higher than the July average. So our expectation is that August and September bookings would be strong. And near term turns still from those bookings will be significant, which will make up for how the quarter looks against the same point in time versus June. It will improve, and that’s really what is included in our guidance.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

John Pitzer
Hi, Steve. Thanks for let me ask the question. You said in your prepared comments that backlog heading into September is down about 8% from the comparable time period heading into the June quarter. But if I go back 90 days ago, you didn’t believe that backlog and at least your initial guidance for June took a fairly significant haircut to kind of the backlog and bookings. I’m just kind of curious, can you help us understand relative to the normal backlog coverage you have to your guide, how does sort of the September guidance look today?
Steve Sanghi
So same thing, John. I think, in this pandemic-driven environment, throw all the old graphs away because you will reach a wrong conclusion. If you recall, on April 1, our backlog was quite strong. And the guidance we gave – I think our backlog, Eric, was it up 9%, do I recall it correctly?
Eric Bjornholt
I’d have to go back in a second. I mean, our book-to-bill was like 1.17% in the March quarter. And so we entered with very strong backlog, and then we saw weak bookings and…
Steve Sanghi
So we had a very strong backlog. And we gave guidance, original guidance, which was actually to be down from 2% to 10% or 2% to 12%. So we basically said that the backlog will deteriorate from being up near 9% to down 6%. This is a reverse quarter where the backlog started lower, and it started 8% lower than April 1 and the midpoint of our guidance is really down – is down 4%. So this time, we’re improving. We are expecting the backlog to improve in comparison to the last quarter. Why? Because last quarter bookings declined during the quarter, this quarter bookings are increasing during the quarter. And it’s all visibility, pandemic, end-market driven, what’s happening in automotive, what’s happening in data center, what’s happening in others. And there is really no correlation to what happened in the last five years. So throw all seasonality of the past away.
John Pitzer
That’s helpful. But Steve, if I could just add on there. We’ve all struggled, and I think you guys have internally with all the acquisitions, defining what’s normal seasonal. Any update on what you can give us on or what you think a normal seasonal September quarter would look like sequentially?
Steve Sanghi
Well, first, the environment has to become normal, and we haven’t seen normal in the last couple of years with all the U.S.-China trade sanctions and then the tariffs and now global pandemic. So once we have to have a stable environment for a year or so to figure out what the new seasonality would be with our acquisitions. Right now, it would be anybody’s guess. And whatever the seasonality would be in future right now throw that aware.
John Pitzer
Thanks, guys.
Steve Sanghi
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO. Please go ahead.
Ambrish Srivastava
Hi. Thank you, Steve. I’m going to ask for a clarification as well. I just want to make sure I understand your comments correctly. So as the last quarter progressed based on what – how you explained it, it sounds like bookings deteriorated because you had a lot of short lead time orders that were not met. And now heading into the September quarter; is it fair to assume then that those quarters are now – those quarters are scrub? But then how to I reconcile with the fact that you still had delinquencies that you could not meet. Should they be coming up in this quarter? I’m just a little bit confused on trying to reconcile all your comments on the short lead time orders and the booking trends. That made sense that as the quarter progressed, bookings deteriorated, but then what about the shorter lead time orders that you could not meet in the last quarter?
Steve Sanghi
Well, let me see if I can clear some of the confusion. So we started the June quarter with a fairly strong backlog, I recall up 9% or so, and Eric correct that. And then w