Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q4 2021 Earnings Conference Call May  6, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Eric Bjornholt - Chief Financial Officer
Ganesh Moorthy - President and CEO
Steve Sanghi - Executive Chairman
Conference Call Participants
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo Securities
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho
Craig Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley
David O'Connor - BNP Paribas
Denis Pyatchanin - Needham & Company
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Microchip's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. As a reminder today's call is being recorded. 
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Microchip's Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Eric Bjornholt. Please go ahead, sir.
Eric Bjornholt
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual and events may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today, as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip’s business and results of operations. In attendance with me today are Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip’s President and CEO; and Steve Sanghi, Microchip’s Executive Chairman. I will comment on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2021 financial performance. Ganesh will then give their commentary on our results and discuss the current business environment, as well as our guidance. And Steve will provide an update on our cash return strategy. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We are including information on our press release and in this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the investor relations page or Web site at www.microchip.com, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We've also posted a summary of our outstanding debt or leverage -- and our and our leverage metrics on our Web site. I will now go through some of the operating results including net sales, gross margin and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share based compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release.
Net sales in the march quarter were 1.46 7 billion, which were up 8.5% sequentially and above the midpoint of our quarterly guidance. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales by product line and geography as well as our total end market demand on our Web site for your reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record of 64.1%, operating expenses were at 23.4% and operating income was a record 40.7%. Non-GAAP net income was a record $521.4 million, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was a record $1.85, $0.12 above the midpoint of our guidance. On a GAAP basis in the march quarter, gross margins were a record at 63.2%, total operating expenses were $618.8 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $232.4 million, special income of $7.2 million, $2.9 million of acquisition related and other costs and share based compensation of $47.2 million. The GAAP net income was $116 million or $0.41 per diluted share and was adversely impacted by $85.6 million loss on debt settlements associated with our convertible debt refinancing activities. Our March quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors, notably the tax benefit recorded on the convertible debt exchange transactions occurring during the period.
For fiscal year 2021, net sales were a record $5.438 billion. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record 62.8%, operating expenses were 23.2% of sales and operating income was a record 39.6% of sales. Non-GAAP net income was a record $1.784 billion and EPS was a record of $6.59 per diluted share. On a GAAP basis, gross margins were a record 62.1%, operating expenses were 43.7% of sales and operating income was 18.4% of sales. Net income was $349.4 million and EPS was $1.29 per diluted share. Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 1.8% in the March quarter and 4.1% for fiscal year 2021. The non-GAAP cash tax rate in the March quarter was lower than originally forecasted due to a variety of factors, including the receipt of a tax refund that had not been forecasted to be received until a later date. We expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal '22 to be about 6%, exclusive of the transition tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring the Microsemi operations into the Microchip global structure, and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
Our inventory balance at March 31, 2021 was $665 million. We had 112 days of inventory at the end of the March quarter, which was down eight days from the prior quarter's level. Inventory at our distributors at the end of the March quarter were at 22 days, which is a record low level and down from 26 days at the end of the prior quarter. We are ramping capacity in our internal and external factories so we can ship as much products as possible to support customer requirements. In the March quarter, we exchanged $359.2 million of our 2025, 2027 and 2037 convertible subordinated notes for cash and shares of our common stock. While these transactions did not impact the overall level of debt on our balance sheet, we believe that these convertible exchanges will benefit stockholders by significantly reducing share count dilution to the extent our stock price appreciates overtime. The principal amount of convertible debt on our balance sheet at the end of fiscal year 2021 is $1.263 billion compared to $4.481 billion at the beginning of calendar year 2020, putting our overall capital structure in a much better long term position.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $449.2 million in the March quarter. As of March 31, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $282 million. We paid down $369.2 million of total debt in the March quarter. Over the last 11 full quarters since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we have paid down $3.61 billion of debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down this debt. We've accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this period, which we feel was a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business, as well as our ongoing operating discipline. We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years.
Our adjusted EBITDA in the March quarter was a record $652.3 million and our trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was also a record at $2.375 billion. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA excluding our very long dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and as more equity like in nature was 3.71 at March 31, 2021, down from 3.93 at December 31, 2020. Please note that the amount of the outstanding 2037 bond will reduced by $156 million during the March quarter as part of our financing transaction. And without this transaction, our net debt to EBITDA would have been lower. Our dividend payment in the March quarter was $106.6 million. Capital expenditures were $55.4 million in the March 21 quarter and $92.6 million for fiscal year 2021.
Our fiscal year 2021 capital expenditures came in lower than originally planned, due to longer equipment lead times and deliveries pushing out due to overall industry conditions. Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 are expected to be between $225 million and $275 million. Our forecast for the June 2021 quarter’s capital expenditures is between $70 million and $90 million. We continue to add capital equipment to maintain, grow and operate our internal manufacturing operations to support the growth of our business. We expect these capital investments will bring gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control of our production during periods of industry wide constraints. Depreciation expense in the March quarter was $40.2 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the March quarter, as well as our June quarter guidance. Ganesh?
Ganesh Moorthy
Thank you, Eric and good afternoon, everyone. Our March quarter was also strong by every key metric, closing a tumultuous fiscal year on a very positive note, which was otherwise dominated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. March quarter revenue was an all time record at $1.467 billion, growing by 8.5% sequentially. Non-GAAP gross margins were another record at 64.1%, up 110 basis points from the December quarter as we benefited from improved factory utilization and product mix. Non-GAAP operating margin is also a record at 40.7%, the first time we have broken through the 40% mark. Our journey towards our long term business model of 65% gross margin and 42% operating margin is off to a good start, but still has a lot of hard work ahead of us to achieve. Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was above the high end of our guidance at a record $1.85. EBITDA was very strong and achieved another record at $652.3 million, continuing to demonstrate the robust profitability and cash generation capabilities of our business through the business cycles.
The March quarter also marked 122nd consecutive quarter of non-GAAP profitability. I would like to take this occasion to thank all our stakeholders who enabled us to achieve these outstanding and record results in the March quarter, and especially thank the worldwide Microchip team whose tireless efforts not only deliver our fine strong financial results, but also supported our customers to navigate a difficult environment and who worked constructively with our supply chain partners to find creative solutions in a hyper constrained environment. Reflecting on our fiscal year 2021 results, we achieved a number of highlights and records in the last year. Revenue was a record at $5.438 billion, non-GAAP gross margin was a record at 62.8%, non-GAAP operating margin was a record at 39.6%, and non-GAAP EPS was a record at $6.59. All in all, the record March quarter results and the record March ending fiscal year 2021 results marks a seamless transition between Steve and I as we each embark on our new roles to build the next phase of Microchip's long term success. I'm truly fortunate to be the beneficiary of Steve's years of managing Microchip for the long term.
Taking a look at our business, from a product line perspective, our microcontroller revenue was sequentially up 12.2% as compared to the December quarter and set new quarterly and fiscal year records. On a year-over-year basis, our March quarter microcontroller revenue was up 12.3%. Microcontrollers represented 55.6% of our revenue in the march quarter. Our analog revenue was sequentially up 11.3% as compared to the December quarter. Analog represented 28.3% of our revenue in the march quarter. Our revenue were sequentially down 6.4% for other as compared to the December quarter and represented 16.1% of our revenue in the march quarter. Last month, Gartner released their microcontroller market share report for calendar year 2020. Gartner continues to have a large discrepancy versus our publicly reported microcontroller revenue, to the tune of $428 billion of revenue understatement for all of 2020 predominantly in the 32 bit microcontroller revenue category. Adjusting the Gartner number to use our actual microcontroller revenue, we are pleased to report that for microcontrollers overall we remain the number three spot. However, in 2020, we substantially closed the gap between us and the two players ahead of us. We are now within striking distance of each of the two players who are just 3.6% ahead of us in revenue as we continue our relentless march towards the number one spot.
We gained market share in each of the 8 bit, 16 bit and 32 bit microcontroller markets. While our 8 bit and 16 bit microcontroller businesses continue to do well, our 32 bit microcontroller business was our fastest growing microcontroller business. Our microcontroller portfolio and roadmap has never been stronger. We believe we have the new product momentum and customer engagement to continue to gain share in 2021 as we further build the best performing microcontroller franchise in the industry. Taking a look at our business from a geographic perspective, Americas was up 0.8% sequentially. Europe was up 30.4% sequentially, stronger than what is normally the seasonally strongest quarter. Asia was up 5% sequentially in the quarter and business is normally down due to the Lunar New Year holidays. Taking a look at our business from an end market perspective, the automotive, industrial and consumer markets remain the strongest markets. The computing end market was strong while the datacenter and communications end markets were flat to up a little. The aerospace and defense markets, which tend to be lumpy was the only end market that was weak.
Business conditions remain exceptionally strong through the quarter with record bookings and backlog for product to be shipped over multiple quarters. Demand outpaced the capacity improvements we were able to implement, resulting in lead times continuing to extend out. In my 40 years in the semiconductor industry, I cannot recall a time where the imbalance between the supply and demand has been more acute. In response, we launched our Preferred Supply Program or PSP to provide customers with supply priority beginning six months after their order in exchange for at least 12 months of non-cancellable orders. Customer response to the program has exceeded our expectations with direct customers and distributors alike. About 44% of our backlog is now in the PSP category. Although, it is almost 100% of our backlog in some of the most constrained capacity corridors.
Additional PSP backlog continues to come in every week. This gives us a solid foundation to enable us to prudently acquire constrained raw materials, invest in expanding factory capacity and hire employees to support our factory ramps. With the strong demand we're experiencing constraints in all of our internal and external factories and their related manufacturing supply chains. We started ramping our internal factories in September, as well as investing in capital additions to expand our internal capacity. We are making incremental capacity decisions for our internal factories where possible based on the strength of our backlog, especially our non-cancelable PSP backlog, which is reflected in our fiscal year '22 capital forecast of $225 million to $275 million. We also work closely with our supply chain partners who provide wafer foundry, assembly, test and materials to secure additional capacity wherever possible. Through the combination of internal and external capacity actions we've taken, we expect our overall capacity will continue to grow every quarter in calendar year 2021. While our capacity will continue to grow every quarter, we also believe that wafer fab, as well as assembly and test constraints will persist through 2021 and quite likely into 2022.
Now let’s get into the guidance for the June quarter. Our backlog for the June quarter is very strong. In addition, we have considerable backlog requested by customer in the June quarter that currently can not be fulfilled until later quarters despite us growing capacity from the last quarter. This is because the entire semiconductor supply chain remains constrained. Taking all the factors we have discussed on the call today into consideration, we expect our net sales for the June quarter to be up between 3.5% and 7.5% sequentially. Our guidance range assumes continued operational constraints, some of which we will work through during the quarter and others that will carry over to be worked in future quarters. For the June quarter, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 64.1% and 64.5% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 23.1% and 23.5% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating profit percentage to be between 40.6% and 41.4% of sales. And we expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $1.85 and $1.95. Please keep in mind that our non-GAAP EPS forecast for the June quarter includes 420 basis point higher tax rate assumption in the March quarter. We also expect to pay down another approximately $325 million of our debt into June quarter.
Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization and intangibles, restructuring charges and inventory write-up and acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on a non-GAAP basis except the net sales, which will be on a GAAP basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters and we request that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call. Finally, as we announced on our February conference call, based on the strong cash generation characteristics of our business, in up cycles and down cycles, we have modified our capital allocation thought process to pivot to a cash return strategy, which has received very positive investor feedback.
Steve will provide more details on this strategy, as well as the long term thinking that informs our actions in this regard. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I would like to provide you further updates on our cash return strategy. But before I do that, I would like to say, how I continue to be very proud of all employees of Microchip that have delivered a flawless quarter and making new records in many respects: Namely, record net sales, record non-GAAP gross margin percentage, record non-GAAP operating margin percentage and record EBITDA. Now, I will turn to updating you on the cash return strategy. We completed the March quarter with a net debt leverage ratio of 3.71, excluding the long day to 2037 maturity converts that are more equity like in nature. At the rate, we are paying down debt we expect to break net debt leverage ratio of 3 within a year and continue to decrease from there. Around that time, we would also expect to achieve an investment grade rating, but the exact timing will depend on the analysis of the rating agencies. At that time, we expect to begin distributing more of our substantial amount of free cash flow to our investors in the form of dividends and stock buybacks.
Regarding buybacks. Through our various convertible debt exchanges, we have essentially bought a substantial amount of stock back from the future. This is because as our stock price rises and exceeds the conversion price of the debt, convertible debt dilutes the share count. Buying converts back prevents future dilution as the stock price rises. Our first convert buyback was in March of 2020 when Microchip stock price was about $71. Since then we have done five other buyback transactions at various stock prices. By doing these various buyback transactions, we have purchased a total of $3.884 billion in face value of our convertible bonds. For the transactions from March 2020 to December, 2020, we issued a total of about 27.5 million shares of our common stock to the investors for in the money value of there bonds. If these bonds had remained outstanding until an assumed stock price of $160 per share, the dilution would have been about $36.4 million shares. Thus, our repurchases had the impact of creating a savings of about $8.9 million shares, worth $1.424 billion savings to our investors at that assumed price of $160 per share. This calculation does not include our February 2021 transaction, which was very recent and executed at $163.25 per share, so it is not yet accretive.
While we have not done in open market stock buybacks in the last year, our convert transaction had the impact of a buyback of approximately 8.9 million shares or about 3% of our outstanding shares. We expect to start stock buybacks from the open market after we have achieved an investment grade rating, which we expect within a year depending on the rating agency. Meanwhile, we did not want to wait for starting higher dividends until our leverage ratio reaches a given number, so we initiated a path to higher dividends in our February 2021 dividend announcement with 5% dividend increase. We are continuing on this path as we announced today that the Board of Directors have approved a dividend increase of 5.9% sequentially to $41.3 per share, up from $0.39 previously. We expect to continue to increase dividends quarterly as part of our cash retention strategy.
With that, operator, will you please poll for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Mark Lipacis with Jefferies.
Mark Lipacis
Steve, I had a question for you about the PSP program. On the surface, it seems like you instituted this program to help customers on a more tactical basis. But I wonder if you believe there are secular drivers that ultimately may have led you to PSP kind of program anyway. And do you think -- now that you have this program, do you think it becomes a more permanent part of your standard operating model going forward?
Steve Sanghi
Well, going back to as we implemented the program and why we implemented the program, let's kind of revisit that history. The backlog was so strong and constraints were so widespread as Ganesh mentioned in his 40 year career and mine, 42 plus year careers, we have never seen this kind of shortage in constraints in the semiconductor industry. So the question really became how do we take our key customers in various segments, not only automotive but industrial and communications and data centers and PCs and all and allow them some mechanism where they can get preferred supply of parts, and it's something in it for them and something in it for us. And the design of that program became this Preferred Supply Program in which we asked that if you could give us 12 months of noncancelable nonreschedulable backlog, and there is a tremendous benefit to Microchip, we could buy supplies ahead, we could hire people, we could make capital investment, we could do all these things with the assurity of a very, very large, solid, noncancelable, nonscheduleable backlog, that's a benefit to us.
And what the customer gets is after six month period, and we did that six months period because we don't want to create a lot of churn in the first six months, and there was more availability of capacity after six months. So at that point in time, we said anybody who gives a PSP backlog, they will get the preferred supply. And if there is any shortage at that time, it will be spread among the non PSP customers. So long answer, but that's really how the program came about, not knowing what the acceptance would be and the results just have been absolutely tremendous. We have billions of dollars of PSP backlog, 44% of the total backlog on some of the most constrained supply corridors the PSP backlog is almost equal to 100% of capacity. So you can see the advantage where we could go ahead, make those investments or buy additional equipment.
Now leading then to your question, could this become a permanent landscape. I think it will depend largely on the experience of our customers and Microchip together in the year as we progress. When the cycle ends on the other cycle, when there is a lot of capacity available, customers may not be willing to make a year long commitment that is nonchangeable. So that's what the customers would be thinking, but the environments go come back and forth. So our intent would be to show the customers how well we serve them because they had PSP and what the benefits are if they continue with that program going forward. And I think -- let Ganesh comment on that, it's really going to be how we manage it going forward.
Ganesh Moorthy
So my view is we're in the early innings of PSP. We've just launched it. It's a couple of months. It's going extremely well. I think we continue to make fine tuning of the program. And it's too early to tell how long term it will be. I think for many, many customers they've learned in this cycle that running low on inventory or low on backlog visibility can have extreme impact on their business. And so give it a few more months, let's see how it looks.
Steve Sanghi
A lot of buzzwords, programs the industry develops some of them last for a short period of time in a cycle or so, and some of them last a very long period of time. I think you're seeing the beginning of the end of the word, GIT. The losses in the industry by our customers due to constraints are so large that they have lost more money than all the money they save for a decade on GIT. And that could be the long term benefit where industry plans better rather than just in time give me 50% more, where does it come from and lead times are very long.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Vivek Arya with Bank of America Securities.
Vivek Arya
When investors look at this extreme level of supply demand imbalance that their reaction is that this will surely create a hard landing. And I'm curious to get your perspective, Ganesh or Steve, that will the situation be resolved in an orderly way? When does the industry get back to a more balanced environment? What is your visibility into inventory at your end customers? Just when do we get back to normal and what does normal look like, or is there a hard or soft landing that you had to go through?
Ganesh Moorthy
We do not have a line of sight for when things get to be normal. As I mentioned, the gap between demand and supply grew in the March quarter and continues to be quite large. But we have taken a number of steps to get ahead of whatever change in cycle cycle will come to soften how that landing will take place. So we just discussed the PSP in quite a bit of detail and that gives us 12 months of continuous noncancelable backlog, and that will enable us to spot and plan for whenever that change becomes apparent to us on longer term backlog. The capacity additions we're making, we're not trying to solve the entire gap all in one quarter. We're making measured steps every quarter and improvements over multiple quarters. And to the extent we see a change, we will taper off the build plans and capacity additions consistent with that.
Third is if you look at where our inventory is and where you look at our channel inventories are at historic lows from the channel perspective and pretty low for us as well. And that gives us time and ability to continue to replenish that inventory. It will help to minimize any underabsorption that might have happened otherwise. And it positions us well to capitalize on whatever the subsequent upcycle will be. There is going to be an up cycle to whatever next down cycle there's going to be. And when that happens, we actually push out capital requirements because we will have replenished some of that inventory. And finally on that if and when there is that next hard landing or soft landing. For us, what we are doing is our bonus programs and other variable compensation programs, as you've seen in prior cycles, give us a fair amount of [ability] to mitigate which way our expenses go as we go through the cycles, and that flexibility in operating expenses is one more item that helps us in terms of getting to a soft landing.
Operator
We'll hear next from Gary Mobley from Wells Fargo Securities.
Gary Mobley
Congrats on the strong finish to the year, what a difference a year makes. I wanted to ask about your target margin goal of 65% and 42% on gross and operating margin, respectively. It would seem to me that you're in the most optimal of conditions to see the achievement of those goals with respect to revenue mix and manufacturing utilization. And so my question to you is, is that target a best case scenario, or is it sustainable over the long term? And what revenue level are you looking for to achieve those targets?
Steve Sanghi
We're making good progress towards that. We obviously, from quarter to quarter, can make rapid progress and sometimes it will be a little slower beyond that. So I wouldn't take last quarter and apply that as how it's going to be every quarter going forward. We just introduced this new model in December. So it's not been that long. And we've made a good start here. Conditions are strong for where we're at. We're executing well in the many different areas we outlined for investors as to how will we achieve the gross margins. There are also other pressures. There are cost pressures in some of the materials and input costs as well that we're working through. And then the operating expenses, we continue to have investments we need to make so that the long term growth and profitability of the business can be realized. So let's continue to have several more quarters as we go through this. But we feel good about these long term targets, and we think we're working on the right things operationally as well as in 