Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call January 26, 2021  5:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Michael Spencer - General Manager, IR
Satya Nadella - Chief Executive Officer
Amy Hood - Chief Financial Officer
Alice Jolla - Chief Accounting Officer
Keith Dolliver - Deputy General Counsel
Conference Call Participants
Mark Moerdler - Bernstein Research
Brent Thill - Jefferies
Karl Keirstead - UBS
Keith Weiss - Morgan Stanley
Mark Murphy - JP Morgan
Walter Pritchard - Citibank
Raimo Lenschow - Barclays
Brad Reback - Stifel
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to the Microsoft Fiscal Year 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mike Spencer, General Manager, Investor Relations. Thank you, sir. You may begin.
Michael Spencer
Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Alice Jolla, Chief Accounting Officer; and Keith Dolliver, Deputy General Counsel.
On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement, our prepared remarks during today’s call and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.
Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the Company’s second quarter performance in addition to the impact these items and events have on the financial results.
All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We’ll also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we’ll refer to growth rate only.
We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today’s call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today’s earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the Risk Factors sections of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.
And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Satya.
Satya Nadella
Thank you, Mike. It was a record quarter driven by our commercial cloud, which surpassed $16 billion in revenue, up 34% year-over-year. What we are witnessing is the dawn of a second wave of digital transformation sweeping every company and every industry.
Digital capability is key to both resilience and growth. It's no longer enough to just adopt technology. Businesses need to build their own technology to compete and grow. Microsoft is powering the shift with the world's largest and most comprehensive cloud platform.
And now I'll briefly highlight how we are innovating across every layer of the modern tech stack starting with Azure. We are building Azure as the world's computer to support organizations growing cloud needs. We are investing to bring our cloud services to more customers announcing seven new data center regions in Asia, Europe and Latin America and adding support for top secret classified workloads in the United States.
We've always led in hybrid computing and we are accelerating our innovation to meet customers where they are. Azure Stack HCI, now broadly available, helps businesses extend the power of the cloud to sovereign workloads. More than thousand customers now use as Azure Arc to simplify hybrid management and run Azure services across on-premises, multi-cloud and at the edge.
And with Azure Digital Twins organizations, like Bentley Systems, Honeywell Industries and Johnson Controls can bridge the digital and physical worlds, creating simulations of factories, cities to optimize their operations.
We are seeing momentum in every industry. Deutsche Telekom rely on Azure to modernize its IT infrastructure through a partnership with Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard as well as Verily, our cloud will be used to help more researchers analyze biomedical data. Cruise and GM chose Azure as their preferred cloud as they work to make autonomous driving mainstream.
And just last Friday, we announced an expansion of our partnership with SAP to accelerate the adoption of SAP workloads on Azure. In the past six months, we've seen Tier 1 ERP migrations from companies such as Bayer, Carhartt, Coats and PepsiCo to Azure.
At the data layer, Azure is the only cloud with limitless data and analytics capabilities that enable organizations to build the predictive and analytical path required to digitally transform. Azure Synapse brings together big data, data warehousing and data integration all into one powerful solution.
Leading companies like FedEx, Grab and P&G are using Synapse to generate immediate insights from massive amounts of structured and unstructured data and we are seeing strong overall growth in our analytics business as companies accelerate their data initiatives to build competitive advantage.
Data governance is top of mind for every business leader and will grow into an important category on its own as critical as any AI or analytics category today. We are investing to participate in this growth. New Azure Purview provides an end-to-end view of an organization's data estate across on-premise, multi-cloud and SaaS apps that previously was impossible.
In AI, we offer the most comprehensive portfolio of tools, frameworks and infrastructure, enabling businesses to build mission-critical solutions that comprehend speech, understand natural language, make predictions, provide insights, and support decision-making. Our Azure Health Bot, for example, is being used by organizations like the CDC, Premera Blue Cross, and Walgreens to build virtual healthcare assistants used by more than 80 million people worldwide at a time when expanding access to healthcare information is more critical than ever.
Now to developers. Developers have been critical to business continuity over the last year, and we’re helping them collaborate and scale their impact to drive organizational outcomes. From GitHub to Visual Studio, we have the most widely used and loved toolchain to help developers rapidly go from idea to code and code to cloud.
Use of GitHub is becoming key to building digital capability in every company across every industry. Today, GitHub is used by more than 56 million developers, as well as 3 million organizations – from BuzzFeed and Plaid, to Marsh & McLennan, Oracle, and Volvo Car.
Now to Power Platform. We are empowering domain experts, enabling anyone in any organization to build applications, automate processes, create virtual agents, and analyze data. Power Platform is the clear leader in low code/no code development, with more than 11 million monthly active users, up 95% year-over-year.
Businesses like Nestle and Humana chose Power BI this quarter to help employees use data to make smarter decisions. In public sector, the city of Kobe, in Japan, is relying on Power Virtual Agents and Power Automate to keep citizens informed, building intelligent bots to answer frequently asked questions, as well as automated workflows to route inquiries.
Vaccine distribution perhaps best exemplifies the critical need for digital capability across the globe, and our Vaccination Registration and Administration Solution, built on Power Platform, enables governments to manage the end-to-end process, from screening and scheduling, to administration, and follow ups. In Australia, the government of Victoria is relying on our tools to help deliver doses to more than 6 million residents, and here in the United States, Minnesota, Nebraska, and Oklahoma are using our capabilities.
Our Return to the Workplace solution in Power Platform is also helping organizations keep workers safe and healthy when they go back to the office. And we’re adding new capabilities to ensure people have verifiable, secure access to their vaccination records.
Now to Dynamics 365. We are taking share as companies in every industry turn to new business applications to grow. Customer expectations are changing faster than ever before requiring near real-time visibility into trends, behavior, and needs. Our customer data platform, Customer Insights, leads its category and has helped customers unify over 2 billion customer profiles, providing a single view of interactions across marketing, sales, and e-commerce to deliver more personalized experiences.
More companies are turning to our mixed reality solutions to help frontline employees connected even when they are apart. L’Oréal, for example, is using Dynamics 365 Remote Assist and HoloLens 2 to help technicians repair equipment at factories even when they cannot travel.
In retail, our applications were front and center at NRF earlier this month. Dynamics 365 Commerce now supports both B2C and B2B e-commerce, enabling retailers like Columbia Sportswear to ship inventory from stores and offer contactless payment options. PromoteIQ continues to scale rapidly, with retailers like DICK’S Sporting Goods, The Home Depot, and Kroger using the platform to power their digital vendor marketing programs.
Finally, our new Microsoft Cloud for Retail is bringing together our platform and tools across the shopper journey, accelerating time to value. It builds on the success of the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare, which is being used by organizations, including Providence, to empower clinicians to better serve patients.
Now to LinkedIn. We once again saw record levels of engagement across the platform, as LinkedIn’s nearly 740 million members use the network to connect, learn, and find new opportunities. Sessions increased 30%. Conversations were up 48%. And hours spent on LinkedIn Learning were up 2X, compared to a year ago.
LinkedIn’s advertising business had a record quarter, accounting for more than a third of LinkedIn’s total revenue. LinkedIn’s Marketing Solutions was up over 50%, as advertisers increasingly turn to the platform as the trusted way to reach professionals ready to do business.
Finally, we continue to benefit from the secular shift to remote selling. Businesses are using the combination of LinkedIn Sales Navigator and Dynamics 365 to ensure salespeople have the context they need to sell remotely, while new tools help sales organizations use LinkedIn data to identify and size opportunities.
Now to Microsoft 365. The pandemic has proven the PC’s central role in keeping people connected, productive, and secure. We added more new devices running Windows 10 this quarter than ever before. At CES, our partners showcased new PCs designed for the new ways we work, learn, and play. And our Pluton security processor, built by AMD, Intel, and Qualcomm, will bring chip-to-cloud security.
Flexible work is here to stay. To empower the digital workforce, organizations will need an organizing layer for all the ways people work, learn, and collaborate. That’s what Microsoft 365 and Teams uniquely provide.
Teams is the only solution with meetings, calls, chat, content collaboration with Office and business process workflows in a secure, integrated user experience. We are seeing larger deployments. 117 organizations have more than 100,000 users of Teams, and over 2,700 organizations have over 10,000. And Teams has nearly 60 million daily active users on mobile alone.
Teams enables people to collaborate both synchronously and asynchronously, retain business context, and stay in the flow of work – driving increased usage across Office 365 and Power Platform. Power Platform monthly average usage on Teams has grown 4X year-over-year, and with Microsoft Dataverse, anyone can now create and deploy custom solutions with Power Apps and intelligent bots with Power Virtual Agents directly in Teams.
Teams is rapidly becoming the de facto unified communications platform of choice for every organization. New features like voice enabled channels create a more powerful and streamlined calling experience, and noise suppression and live captions with speaker attribution make meetings more accessible.
At Accenture alone, audio conferencing on Teams has increased to over 1 billion minutes a month, as 85,000 employees use Teams to make external calls. And, this quarter, Lumen, formerly CenturyLink, rolled out Teams calling globally to 42,000 employees in just four weeks.
The pandemic has shown the importance of empowering the two billion frontline workers around the world with the right technology. 390,000 associates at home depot will use Microsoft 365 including Yammer to foster connection and engagement across the organization and more than 500,000 employees of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, including healthcare workers use Teams to collaborate.
In education more than 200 million students and educators worldwide rely on Microsoft education products for remote learning and leading customers in every industry including Amgen, AT&T, Diamler, GSK and Ikea are increasingly turning to our premium offerings for advanced security compliance, voice analytics capabilities. Microsoft 365 E5 revenue has grown triple digits for the past four quarters.
Now the security. The reason solarwinds attack are a stark reminder of how critical security is to our customers. We're focused on ensuring organizations deploy and maintain a zero trust fork architecture. Our end-to-end security capabilities inclusive of identity, security, compliance and management across all clouds and all client platforms have been key as we help customers strengthen their security posture and mitigate impact. Beyond our products our operational security posture and threat intelligence which analyzes 8 trillion signals each day help customers defend themselves.
Over the past 12 months our security business revenue has surpassed 10 billion up more than 40%. This milestone is a testament to the deep trust organizations place in us and we will continue to invest in new capabilities across all our products and services to protect our customers. We see strong momentum in usage of our products in identity Azure 80 is more than 425 million monthly active users. In security Microsoft Defender block nearly 6 billion threats last year alone. In management we saw triple digit growth in the number of devices managed by Microsoft in June and in compliance we have seen 90% increase in our customer base year-over-year.
Now onto gaming. We surpassed 5 billion in revenue for the first time in this quarter as we expand our opportunity to reach the world's three billion gamers wherever they play. The launch of Xbox series X and series S was the most successful in our history with the most devices ever sold in a launch month. Game developers are benefiting too as they turn to us to reach more players and scale the games using the power of our cloud. We exceeded $2 billion in revenue from third-party titles this quarter for the first time.
We're gaining console share as gamers recognize the value of our broader ecosystem. Xbox Live has more than a 100 million monthly active users while Game Pass now has 18 million subscribers and we are transforming how games are distributed played and viewed bringing cloud gaming and game pass to iOS devices and Windows PCs over the next few months.
We are pleased with the overall growth in our consumer subscriptions with Game Pass and more than 47 million Microsoft 365 personal family subscribers we have a large and growing consumer subscription business and we see significant opportunity in both of these segments as they move to services and on demand models.
In closing I'm energized by our increasing momentum and the expanding opportunity fueled by the structural change brought about by the rapid adoption of digital technology. We're investing to meeting these needs in the coming decade and I'm optimistic about what's ahead.
With that I'll hand it over to Amy will cover our financial results in detail and share our outlook and I look forward to rejoining you after for questions.
Amy Hood
Thank you, Satya. And good afternoon, everyone. This quarter revenue was $43.1 billion up 17% and 15% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $2.03 increasing 34% and 31% in constant currency. Across our business results exceeded expectations driven by strong execution and improving trend across industries, customer segments and geographical markets resulting in double digit top and bottom line growth.
In our commercial business customers prioritize their digital transformation which drove healthy demand for our hybrid and cloud offerings with material growth in the number of $10 million plus Azure and Microsoft 365 contracts. We saw stronger Azure consumption as well as higher usage of Teams, Power Platform and our advanced security and compliance offerings and within our small and medium business customer segments transactional licensing trends continued to show some improvement.
[indiscernible] our Windows OEM, Office consumer and a surface businesses. The advertising market continue to show improvement benefiting our search and LinkedIn businesses and in gaming, we saw record engagement and monetization across our platform as well as console demand that has significantly exceeded supply following the Xbox series X and S launches.
Moving to our overall results. Even with the declining expiration base and a strong prior year comparable commercial bookings increased 19% and 11% in constant currency. Strong execution across our core annuity sales motions including the Azure and Microsoft 365 momentum that earlier drove the better than expected result.
Commercial remaining performance obligation increased 24% to 22% of constant currency to $112 billion with a roughly equivalent split between the revenue that will be recognized within and the portion beyond the next 12 months.
And our annuity mix increased 4.0 over year to 93%. Commercial cloud revenue was $16.7 billion as growth accelerated to 34% and 32% in constant currency. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage expanded 4.0 points year-over-year to 71% driven by the change in accounting estimate for the useful life of server and networking equipment assets. Excluding this impact commercial cloud gross margin percentage was up slightly.
As a reminder revenue mix shift to Azure increased customer usage of our productivity and collaboration solutions and continue strategic investments to support customers success and the deployment of our solutions will continue to impact gross margin. With the weaker U.S. dollar FX increased revenue growth by approximately 2 points about a point more favorable than anticipated. FX had no impact on comps growth and increased operating expense growth by approximately one point both in line with expectations.
Gross margin dollars increased 18% and 16% constant currency. Gross margin percentage was 67% up slightly year-over-year with roughly 2 points of favorable impact from the change in accounting estimate noted earlier. Excluding this impact company gross margin percentage was down driven by the sales mix shift to cloud and gaming.
Operating expenses increased 3% and 2% constant currency lower than anticipated driven by greater than expected COVID related savings, reductions and retail store expenses and investments that shifted to future quarters.
Overall company headcount grew more than 10% to year-over-year with our focused investment in key areas such as customer success, cloud engineering and sales. Operating income increased 29% and 26% in constant currency and operating margins expanded 4 points year-over-year to 42% including roughly 2 points of favorable impact from the change in accounting estimate and nearly one point of variable impact from COVID related savings.
Now to our segment results. Revenue from productivity and business processes was $13.4 billion increasing 13% and 11% in constant currency ahead of expectations primarily driven by office commercial and LinkedIn on a stronger prior year comparable and included roughly 3 points of benefits primarily from transactional strength in Japan. Office commercial revenue grew 11% and 9% in constant currency. Office 365 commercial revenue grew 21% and 20% constant currency. Results were driven installed base expansion across all workloads and customer segments as well as higher ARPU.
The strong demand for Microsoft 365 noted earlier particularly for our security, compliance and voice components drove E5 revenue growth acceleration again this quarter. Paid Office 365 commercial seats increased 15% year-over-year with strong conversion of our free trial offers. We also saw a steep growth improvement in our small and medium business and first line worker offerings.
Office consumer revenue grew 7% and 6% in constant currency on a strong comparable that included roughly 7 points of benefit from transactional strength in Japan. Microsoft 365 consumer subscriptions grew to 47.5 million up 28% year-over-year. Dynamics revenue grew 21% and 18% in constant currency driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 39% and 37% in constant currency.
The number of customers adopting multiple Dynamics 365 workloads accelerated again this quarter. LinkedIn revenue increased 23% and 22% in constant currency significantly ahead of expectations. Growth in our marketing solutions business accelerated to 53% benefiting from the stronger advertising market noted earlier. Segment gross margin dollars increased 13% and 11% in constant currency and gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged year-over-year with roughly 2 points of favorable impact from the change in accounting estimate. Operating expenses increased 4% and 3% in constant currency and operating income increased 19% and 17% in constant currency, including 5 points due to the change in accounting estimate.
Next the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $14.6 billion ahead of expectations increasing 23% and 22% in constant currency. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 26% and 24% in constant currency. Azure revenue grew 50% and 48% in constant currency driven by strong growth in our consumption based business that benefited from Improvement across industries and customer segments noted earlier.
Our per-user results were also better than expected driven by accelerated growth in our enterprise mobility and security installed base up 29% to over 163 million seats and on a strong prior year comparable that included roughly 4 points of benefit from the end of support for Windows Server 2008. Our on-premise server business increased 4% and 3% in constant currency with strong annuity performance driven by continued demand for our hybrid and premium offerings.
Enterprise services revenue grew 5% and 4% in constant currency again driven by premier support services. Segment gross margin dollars increased 29% and 27% in constant currency and gross margin percentage increased 3 points year-over-year with roughly 3 points of favorable impact from the change in accounting estimate. Operating expenses increased 12% and 11% in constant currency and operating income grew 43% and 41% in constant currency with roughly 10% favorable impact from the change and accounting estimate.
Now to More Personal Computing. Revenue was $15.1 billion increasing 14% and 13% in constant currency and better than expected performance across all businesses. In Windows, the stronger PC market resulted in overall OEM revenue growth of 1% despite a strong prior year comparable and OEM pro from the end of support for Windows 7.
OEM non-pro revenue grew 24% and OEM pro revenue declined 9%. Inventory levels ended the quarter in the normal range. Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue grew 10% and 8% in constant currency driven by continued demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions.
In Surface revenue grew 3% and 1% in constant currency. Search revenue ex TAC increased 2% and 1% in constant currency benefiting from the improved advertising market noted earlier.
And in Gaming revenue increased 51% And 50% in constant currency. Xbox hardware revenue grew 86% driven by the new console launch as well as the benefit from lower price promotions on our prior generation consoles. Xbox content and services revenue grew 40% and 38% in constant currency the strong growth in third party transactions, Game Pass subscribers and first-party titles. Segment gross margin dollars increased 11% and 9% in constant currency and gross margin percentage decreased 2 points year-over-year driven by sales mix shift to gaming. Operating expense decreased 10% and operating income grew 25% and 22% in constant currency.
Now back to total company results. Capital expenditures including finance leases were $5.4 billion up 20% year-over-year to support growing global demand and customer usage of our cloud services. Cash paid for PP&E was $4.2 billion. Cash flow from operations was $12.5 billion increased 17% year-over-year as strong cloud billings and collections were partially offset by payments related to a tax audit settlement.
Free cash flow was $8.3 billion up 17%. Excluding the impact of these tax payments cash flow from operations and free cash flow grew 33% and 41% respectively. Other income and expense was $440 million higher than anticipated primarily driven by net gains on investments including mark to market gains on our equity portfolio as well as net gains on foreign currency remeasurement. Our effective tax rate was approximately 16% in line with expectations. And finally we returned $10 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends; an increase of 18% year-over-year.
Now let's move to our outlook. My commentary for both the next quarter and any remarks for the full year does not include any impact from the ZeniMax acquisition which we still expect to close by the end of the fiscal year. In our commercial business, consistent execution, focus on customer success and a compelling solution portfolio in high growth markets should drive another strong quarter.
In our consumer business we expect to see healthy demand for PCs and productivity tools continue. The growth rates will again be impacted by the end of support for Windows 7 last year.
In Gaming, we expect continued strong engagement on the Xbox platform and significant demand for the Xbox series X and S that will still be constrained by supply and our search in LinkedIn businesses should benefit from the improving advertising market. In commercial bookings we have a growing Q3 expiry base and a low prior year comparable. So strong execution across our core annuity sales motions and increased commitment to our cloud platform should drive healthy growth. As a reminder an increasing mix of large long-term Azure contracts which are more unpredictable in their timing can drive quarterly volatility and the growth rates.
Commercial cloud gross margin percentage increased by approximately 3.0 year-over-year again driven by the change in accounting estimate. Excluding this impact continued improvement in Azure IaaS and PaaS gross margin will be offset by revenue make shift to Azure and continued investments to support our customer success.
We expect a sequential increase on a dollar basis to our capital expenditures as we continue to invest to meet growing global demand for our cloud services. Now to FX. Based on current rates we expect FX to increase total company revenue COGS and operating expense growth by approximately 2 points. Within the segments FX should increase productivity and business processes revenue growth by approximately 3 points and intelligent cloud and more personal computing revenue growth by approximately 2 points.
Now to segment guidance. In productivity and business processes we expect revenue between $13.35 billion and $13.6 billion. In Office commercial revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with continued upsell opportunity to E5. In our on-premise business though we anticipate continued improvement in transactional purchasing trends we expect revenue to decline in the mid to high teens range consistent with the ongoing customer shift to the cloud.
In Office consumer on a strong prior year comparable revenue growth should be similar to last quarter with continued growth in Microsoft 365 subscription revenue. In LinkedIn we expect continued strong engagement on the platform to drive revenue growth in the low 20% range and in dynamics continued momentum will drive revenue growth similar to last quarter. For Intelligent Cloud we expect revenue between $14.7 billion and $14.95 billion. In 