Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call February  4, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Eric Bjornholt - Chief Financial Officer
Ganesh Moorthy - President and Chief Operating Officer
Steve Sanghi - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Conference Call Participants
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Securities
Craig Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo securities
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO
Chris Danely - Citi
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler
Janet Ramkissoon - Quadra Capital
Denis Pyatchanin - Needham & Company
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Microchip's Third Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer, Eric Bjornholt. Please go ahead.
Eric Bjornholt
Thanks [Cloie] and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today, as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip’s business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are Steve Sanghi, Microchip’s Chairman and CEO; Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip’s President and COO. I will comment on our third quarter financial performance and Steve and Ganesh will then give their comments on the results and discuss the current business environment, as well as our guidance. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We had an unintentional posting of our earnings release on our website, shortly before the normally scheduled training today. Once we determine this occurred, we move quickly to get the releases sent out over our normal distribution processes. We are including information in our press release and our conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the investor relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website.
I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin, and operating expenses. Other than that sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share based compensation, and certain other adjustments as described in our press release. Net sales in the December quarter were 1.352 billion, which was up 3.3% sequentially and above the midpoint of our quarterly guidance. We have posted the summary of our GAAP net sales by product line and geography, as well as our total end-market demand on our website for your reference.
On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record at 63%, operating expenses were at 23.2%, and operating income was a record 39.8%. Our factory underutilization charges decreased from $12.2 million to $3.7 million sequentially as we continue to ramp our factories to respond to the strong business conditions. We expect the continued ramp of our factories to lead to no underutilization charges on the March quarter. Non-GAAP net income was 444.9 million, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $1.62, $0.05 above the midpoint of our guidance.
On a GAAP basis, in the December quarter, gross margins were a record at 62.6% and include the impact of 6.4 million of share-based compensation expense. Total operating expenses were 600.2 million and include acquisition and tangible amortizations of 231.6 million, special charges of 4.3 million, 5.4 million of acquisition-related and other costs, and share based compensation of 44.8 million. The GAAP net income was 36.2 million or $0.13 per diluted share, and was adversely impacted by $142.1 million loss on debt settlements associated with debt refinancing activities in the quarter.
Our December quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors, notably the tax benefit recorded on the convertible debt exchange transactions occurring during the period. Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 4.25% in the December quarter. We expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal 2021 to be about 4.8% exclusive of the transition tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring the Microsemi operations into the Microchip global structure and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years. 
We have many tax attributes and net operating losses and tax credits, as well as U.S. interest deductions that we believe will keep our cash taxes low in the future. Our inventory balance at December 31, 2020 was 666.1 million. We had 120 days of inventory at the end of the December quarter, which was flat to the prior quarter’s level. Inventory at our distributors in the December quarter were 26 days, which is a record low level and down from 30 days at the end of the prior quarter. In the current environment, it is called quite challenging for Microchip or its distributors to increase days of inventory.
In the December quarter, we exchanged [1.086 billion] of our 2025, 2027, and 2037 convertible subordinated notes for cash, shares of our common stock, and a new convertible bond that matures in 2024. While these transactions did not impact the overall level of debt on our balance sheet, we believe that these convertible exchanges will benefit stockholders by significantly reducing share count dilution to the extent our stock price appreciates over time, which Steve will comment on further in his prepared remarks.
In calendar year 2020, we reduced the amount of convertible bonds on Microchip’s balance sheet by approximately 2.9 billion. In the December quarter, we also issued a $1.4 billion senior secured bond with the maturity date of February 15, 2024, and an interest rate of 0.972%, and used the proceeds from that transaction to pay off our Term Loan B, which we were paying an interest rate of about [2.15%].
Our cash flow from operating activities was 509.7 million in the December quarter. As of December 31, our consolidated cash and total investment position was 372.7 million. We paid down 289.7 million of total debt in the December quarter, but please remember that this is inclusive of the cash paid for our various debt financing activities in the quarter, including putting a capped call in place for our newly issued convertible bonds.
Over the last 10 full quarters, since we closed our Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we have paid down 3.24 billion of debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down this debt. We have accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business, as well as the ongoing operating discipline we have. We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years.
Our adjusted EBITDA in the December quarter was a record 593.4 million and our trailing 12-months adjusted EBITDA was 2.271 billion. Our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA, excluding our very long dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and is more equity like in nature was 3.93 at December 31, 2020, down from 4.04 at September 30, 2020, but please note that the amount of the 2037 bonds will reduce by 407.7 million during the December quarter as part of the financing transactions, which has impacted this metric. Our dividend payment in the December quarter was $96 million.
Capital expenditures were 21.4 million in the December 2020 quarter. We expect between $50 million and $60 million in capital spending in the March quarter, and overall capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 to be between $87 million and $97 million. In last quarter’s conference call, we explained that our capital expenditure plan for fiscal 2021 had increased as we more rapidly prepared for growth in our business, as well as actions we were taking to increase our internal capacity in the face of constraints our outsourcing partners are experiencing.
Our fiscal 2021 capital expenditures are coming in lower than we indicated last quarter, due to longer equipment lead times and deliveries pushing out due to the overall industry conditions. We continue to add capital to maintain and operate our internal manufacturing operations, support the production capabilities for our new products and technologies, as well to selectively bring in house some of the wafer fabrication, assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect these capital investments will bring gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control over our destiny during periods of industry-wide constraints. Depreciation expense in the December quarter was $40.3 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give his comments on the performance of the business in the December quarter. Ganesh?
Ganesh Moorthy
Thank you, Eric and good afternoon everyone. Let's start by taking a closer look at microcontrollers. Our microcontroller revenue performed well with revenue sequentially up 3.3%, as compared to the September quarter. On a year-over-year basis, our microcontroller revenue was up 5.9%. 
We continued to introduce a steady stream of innovative new microcontroller solutions, including: the first safety certified capacitive touchscreen controllers for the home appliance market; the first Trust&GO Wi-Fi module delivering powerful 32-bit microcontroller functionality and verifiable identity; the industry's highest density secured Ethernet switching solution for hyperscale data centers and telecom service providers; and last but not least, three new broad market, 8-bit microcontroller families to extend our leadership in this product line. Microcontrollers overall represented 53.7% of our revenue in the December quarter.
Moving to analog, our analog revenue also performed well and was sequentially up 3.1% as compared to the September quarter. On a year-over-year basis, our analog revenue was up 2.6%. During the quarter, we continue to introduce a steady stream of innovative analog products too, including the first cryptographic companion device supporting in-vehicle network security solutions, a new family of configurable 12-bit digital-to-analog converters, the first highly integrated radiation-hardened motor controller, and finally a family of low-latency PCI Express 5.0 and Compute Express Link retimers. Analog represented 27.6% of our revenue in the December quarter.
Our FPGA revenue was down 8.5% sequentially, as compared to the September quarter. On a year-over-year basis, our FPGA revenue was up 7.1%. As we cautioned on our prior conference calls, FPGA revenue does have some lumpiness associated with them because of the large exposure to the aerospace and defense market and the associated purchasing patterns.
During the quarter, we announced a radiation-hardened fourth-generation FPGA family and a low-power radiation-tolerant fifth-generation PolarFire FPGA family. FPGA represented 7.3% of our revenue in the December quarter. Our licensing memory and other product line, which we refer to as LMO was up 13% in revenue, as compared to the September quarter, with strength in licensing revenue driving this growth. LMO represented 11.4% of our revenue in the September quarter.
A quick note about our product line reporting. Given the relatively smaller size of our FPGA product line at about 7% of our revenue, as compared to our microcontroller and analog product lines, we have decided that starting in calendar year 2021 we will no longer break out the FPGA product line separately. Our FPGA products remain important to our overall total system solutions goals.
We continue to make significant investments in our FPGA products and expect those investments will help drive our long-term growth and total system solutions initiatives. Going forward, we will combine our FPGA revenue with our LMO, our licensing, memory and other revenues into a new category that we just called other.
From an end-market standpoint, we continue to see the automotive, industrial and consumer markets strengthen further in the December quarter, approximating a V-shaped recovery in the second half of calendar year 2020, as compared to the first half. The end-markets have benefited earlier in the year from the work-from-home related demand surge, namely computing, communications, and data center remained at more normal demand patterns as a surge we saw in the June quarter dissipated.
The Huawei ban which was in effect for all of the December quarter, and represented 1% to 2% of our overall revenue, had a more pronounced negative impact on our data center business, where it was a more meaningful percentage of that business.
Finally, demand for our products that go into the office environment, which we refer to as enterprise demand remained weak as most businesses remain predominantly with our work from home policies, thus deferring enterprise spending for the office environment.
The supply chain constraints that started in the September quarter continued to grow through the December quarter, a robust overall business environment accentuated by rising demand from the automotive, industrial, and consumer markets, combined with low levels of inventory in the distribution channel, resulted in constraints in practically all of our internal and external factories.
In September, we have been ramping our internal factories, as well as investing in capital additions to further extend our internal capacity. We have also worked with our supply chain partners to increase our fab, assembly, and test capacity allocation. However, based on the current strength of the business environment, we expect that the constraints we are currently seeing are likely to continue through much of calendar year 2021 and possibly into calendar year 2022.
As a result, we have seen our lead times stretch out for many of our products where the constraints are most acute. We have also experienced increases in material and subcontracted manufacturing costs, and have taken steps to secure capacity for 2021. Steve will discuss more in his prepared remarks about our actions to address the current environment of increasing manufacturing cost and seemingly insatiable demand.
Let me now pass it to Steve for comments about our business and our guidance going forward. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I would like to first reflect on the results of the fiscal third quarter of 2021. I will then provide guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2021. The December quarter represented the shift of the business cycle back to revenue growth with a 3.3% sequential growth in a quarter where ordinarily, we would see 3% sequential decline from typical seasonal factors. December quarter revenue also grew over prior year’s December quarter by 5%.
We started ramping our internal factories in September, as well as investing in capital additions to expand our internal capacity. We also started working with our supply chain partners to receive more allocation from wafer foundries and assembly test subcontractors. These efforts improved product availability in the December quarter, but still constrained to some of the revenue upside.
We delivered a record non-GAAP gross margin of 63%, helped by a significant reduction in factory underutilization and better overhead utilization from revenue growth. We also achieved a non-GAAP operating margin of 39.8%, an all-time record and getting very close to and an emotional 40% mark. We also hit a record EBITDA of $593.4 million, despite revenue not yet a record, yet showing the robust strength of our business model. Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was $1.62, $0.05 above the mid-point of our guidance. This was also our 121st consecutive quarter of non-GAAP profitability.
Now, I will discuss our guidance for the March quarter. Our bookings were exceptionally strong in the December quarter and were an all-time record. We received bookings both for short-term as well as into the future quarters. The backlog is also an all-time record. Please remember that bookings, as well as the backlog is what is shippable in the next 12 months. The backlog for the March quarter is the strongest starting backlog I’ve ever seen. Our bookings have remained strong in January.
On the operational side, the December quarter was constrained by product availability. We will have more internal and external capacity in the March quarter since we have had multiple months to ramp. Although, I believe that wafer fab, as well as back-end constraints are here to stay with us through calendar year 2021.
In response to the business environment, we have taken three actions. First, in the middle of December, we changed our cancellation and pushed out terms with our customers and distributors. The standard terms used to be that an order cannot be canceled or pushed out once it is within 45 days of shipment. We changed our standard terms so that an order cannot be canceled or pushed out within 90 days of shipment effective January 1, 2021.
We gave customers a couple of weeks to adjust their backlog before it went firm for 90 days. In response to our change in terms, we did not see any unusual cancellations or push-outs which indicates to us that the backlog was firm and needed by our customers. That gave us a solid backlog for the March quarter, which cannot be canceled or pushed out. Therefore, we can batch process the orders and use our manufacturing assets most efficiently, knowing that what we build will get shipped.
The second action we took was that we sent a letter to our customers on January 4, 2021, informing them of the business environment. We also informed them that we are seeing broad-based cost increases and some aggressive commercial terms from our supplier base, and we must pass these cost increases to our customers through a broad-based price increase.
The third action we took just this morning, we posted a letter on our website and sent it to our customers and distributors, announcing a new program called the Microchip Preferred Supply Program, or PSP. This program offers our customers the ability to receive prioritized capacity in the second half 2021 and first half 2022. The program has the following elements. The customers participating in this program will have to place 12 months of orders, which will be non-cancelable and non-reschedulable. The capacity priority will begin for shipments in July 2021.
The program will not be a guarantee of supply. However, it will provide the highest priority for those orders which are under this PSP program. And the capacity priority will be on a first-come-first-served basis until the available capacity is booked. We will, of course, reserve a portion of our capacity for new customers, small long-tail customers, and new designs.
We expect that a significant portion of our capacity will be booked under this new program with a large committed non-cancelable backlog for 12 months, Microchip will be in a stronger position to make capacity and raw material commitments to our suppliers by capital equipment with confidence, hire employees and ramp up manufacturing, and manufacture products more efficiently.
Taking all these factors into consideration, we expect our net sales for March quarter to be up between 5% to 10% sequentially. The March quarter guidance at the mid-point would represent record GAAP net sales with the prior record being in the September quarter of 2018. The September quarter of 2018 based on GAAP sell-in revenue recognition was $1.432 billion. Some of you may still carry a sell-through base number of $1.513 billion for September 2018 in your historical financial model spreadsheets.
The March quarter will also be limited by product availability on many product lines. Our guidance assumes working through a myriad of capacity constraints, qualifying incremental equipment installed, qualifying alternative subcontractors in some cases, and still dealing with a risk of production constraints with a new wave of COVID cases plaguing the planet, and at the same time, ramping of vaccinations.
For the March quarter, we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 63.3% and 63.7% of sales, which would be a new all-time record. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 23.2% and 23.6% of sales, and we expect non-GAAP operating profit percentage to be between 39.7% and 40.5% of sales. We expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $1.67 per share to $1.79 per share. We also expect to pay down another approximately $350 million of our debt in the March quarter.
Finally, I want to cover one other area, which is our future cash return strategy. At the rate we’re paying down debt, we expect to break and net [leverage of 3] within a year and continue to decrease from there. At that time, we expect to begin distributing more of our substantial amount of free cash flow to the investors in the form of dividends and stock buybacks.
Regarding buybacks, through multiple tranches of convertible debt buyback, we have essentially bought a substantial amount of stock back from the future. This is because as the stock price rises and exceeds the conversion price of the debt, convertible debt dilutes the share count [and converts] back prevents future dilution as the stock price rises. Our first convert buyback was in March 2020 when Microchip stock price was about $71. Since then, we have done four other buyback transactions at various stock prices.
By doing these various buyback transactions, we have purchased a total of $3.525 billion in face value of our convertible bonds. For the transactions from March 2020 to September 2020, we issued a total of about 20.4 million shares of our common stock to the investors for in the money value of their bonds.
If these bonds have remained outstanding until an assumed stock price of $140 per share, the stock price about now, the dilution would have been about 26.4 million shares. Thus our repurchases had the impact of creating a savings of about 6 million shares worth $840 million savings to our investors at $140 per share. This calculation does not include our November 2020 transaction, which was very recent and executed at 133.47 per share, so it is not yet accretive.
Therefore, while we have not done any open-market stock buybacks in the last year, our convert transactions have had the impact of a buyback of approximately 6 million shares. At some point in the future, we expect to start pure stock buyback from the open market.
We are also initiating a path to higher dividends and not waiting until our leverage, which is a given number before the dividend starts to increase. In this regard, we announced today that the Board of Directors have approved a dividend increase of 5.8% sequentially to $0.39 per share, up from $0.3685 previously. We expect to continue to increase dividends quarterly as part of our cash return strategy.
Given all of the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on non-GAAP basis, except for net sales, which will be on a GAAP basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters, and we expect that the analysts – and we request that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call.
With this, [Cloie], will you please poll for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take the first question at this time. Caller, please go ahead.
Steve Sanghi
Not able to hear you, maybe you are on mute.
Unidentified Analyst
Steve, can you hear me?
Steve Sanghi
Yes, now.
Unidentified Analyst
Apologize. I didn’t hear my name get called. Just heard caller. Apologize for that. Just really quickly, we've lived through multiple times of you sending out customer letters. And we kind of have an understanding of how the market responds to that, I'd be kind of curious, the preferred supplier agreement that you talked about in your opening remarks, is this the first time that you have done that? And if it's not, what's been the historical response to programs like this?
Steve Sanghi
So, the preferred supplier program is brand new. I have not ever implemented it in my 42 years of career, and I have never seen anybody else do that too. The program is largely a response to the current environment, because bookings level is just so strong and people are booking parts out in time. The industry seems to be, you know, 30% plus sure to really what the capacity requirement is. And many of our customers have been asking, you know, what can they do if they give us longer-term demand, longer-term orders, you know, will that give them parts, will that give them better support?
Now, you know, customers can give us longer-term orders, but if the orders cancellable or reschedule, you know, after 90 days, which was the case prior to the program, then I could have a lot of orders for September and December and could buy capital, hire people to rent but just before I get there, people could cancel, if there was a double ordering, people were asking more than they need, and they cancel part of the orders.
So there is often the problem always and you guys ask the question, is there any double ordering or whatever. And in this program, basically, eliminates all that. It asks the customers to place 12 months of backlog, which will be non-cancelable, [non-rescheduling]. So, I can take that one to the bank, buy raw material, do batch processing, grow the capacity and give them preferential supply. So, this is the first time we have implemented. It’s just a need of the times.
Unidentified Analyst
And I know it was just this morning, but what do you expect the intended response to be from your customers?
Steve Sanghi
Well, you know, small number of customers, you already have feedback through the day, including a couple of distributors, their response is positive. They will place such orders, you know, I don't expect any customer to place their entire backlog on every product on the PSP program, because customers themselves have some programs where they're solid, that the demand is good, they have a good market share on that particular design. But some others could be some new programs where the demand is yet not known. So, I think customers will really take a lot of the product and put it on [TSP] and some others that they want.
Unidentified Analyst
Perfect. Thank you guys.
Steve Sanghi
Welcome.
Operator
We’ll take the next question. It comes from Toshiya Hari. Please go ahead.
Toshiya Hari
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks so much for taking the question. Steve and Ganesh, given the current supply and demand situation, what are your thoughts on pricing across your microcontroller and analog business and if you can kind of speak to gross margins on the back of that, that will be helpful. And I guess, sort of related to that, given the preferred supplier program, how should we think about the economics of that program? Thank you.
Steve Sanghi
So, you know, we sent a letter to our customers on January 4, really informing them, first of the business environment and also informing them that we were seeing broad based cost increases and some very aggressive commercial terms from other suppliers who were facing similar issues from their suppliers really up and down the supply chain. And we must pass these cost increases to our customers through really a broad based price increase. So after writing that letter then we need to really develop that program and we got, you know, several hundred thousand skews and going through the price increase on, you know, on which part and how much and passing on to the customers working through their contracts and long-term prices and stuff like that.
So, all that really has been implemented at this point in time. We're in breaking out, you know, what portion of the guidance is price increase, you know, that's going to be relatively difficult, but the price increases have already been made effective. 
As far as the economics of the PSP program, the economics of the PSP programs really are in having a committed non-cancelable, non-reschedule level backlog on the books that we can build it in batches by raw material ahead if we wanted, you know, increase the inventory if we wanted to serve that and build it whenever we have a [indiscer