Microchip Technology Inc. (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q1 2022 Earnings Conference Call August  3, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Eric Bjornholt – Chief Financial Officer
Ganesh Moorthy – President and Chief Executive Officer
Steve Sanghi – Executive Chair
Conference Call Participants
Toshiya Hari – Goldman Sachs
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Vivek Arya – Bank of America Securities
Ambrish Srivastava – BMO
Harsh Kumar – Piper Sandler
Harlan Sur – JPMorgan
Gary Mobley – Wells Fargo securities
William Stein – Truist Securities
Janet Ramkissoon – Quadra Capital
Chris Danely – Citi
Raji Gill – Needham and Company
Matt Ramsay – Cowen
Chris Caso – Raymond James
Christopher Rolland – Susquehanna
Operator
Good day, everyone and welcome to Microchip’s First Quarter Fiscal 2022 Financial Results. As a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.
At this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to Microchip’s CFO, Mr. Eric Bjornholt. Please go ahead sir.
Eric Bjornholt
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip’s business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip’s President and CEO; and Steve Sanghi, Microchip’s Executive Chair. I will comment on our first quarter fiscal-year 2022 financial performance. Ganesh will then give commentary on our results and financial business environment as well as our guidance. And Steve will provide an update on our cash return strategy. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We are including information in our press release and this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the investor relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, and included reconciliation information on our press release, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website.
We will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margins and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release.
Net sales in the June quarter were $1.569 billion, which was up 7% sequentially, and about 150 basis points above the midpoint of our quarterly guidance given on May 6. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales by product line and geography as well as our total and market demand on our website for your reference.
On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record at 64.8% and operating income was a record 41.7%. Non-GAAP net income was a record $558.8 million. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was a record of $1.98, $0.08 above the midpoint of our guidance. On a GAAP basis in the June quarter gross margins were record at 64.2% and include the impact of $8.8 million of share-based compensation expense.
Total operating expenses were $638.8 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $215.6 million, special charges of $10.5 million, $3.6 million of acquisition related and other costs, and share-based compensation of $47.8 million.
GAAP net income was $252.8 million or $0.89 per diluted share. Our June quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors. Notably tax reserve releases associated with the statute of limitations expiring.
Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 6% in the June quarter, we expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal 2022 to be about 6% exclusive of the transition tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring the Microsemi operations into the Microchip global structure and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
Our inventory balance at June 30, 2021 was $683.8 million. We had a 111 days of inventory at the end of the quarter, which was down one day from the prior quarters’ level. Inventory at our distributors in the June quarter were at 20 days, which is a record low level and down from 22 days at the end of the prior quarter. We are ramping capacity in our internal and external factories so we can ship as much product as possible to support customer requirements.
In the June quarter, we issued a $1 billion senior secured note maturing on September 1, 2024 and bearing interest at 0.983%. We use the proceeds from this bond offering to repay a $1 billion senior secured note that matured on June 1, 2021 that had an interest rate of 3.922%. We believe this was another excellent transaction for us as we continue to enhance our capital structure on our path to becoming an investment grade rated company.
Our cash flow from operating activities was a record at $629.9 million in the June quarter. As of June 30, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $279.7 million. We paid down $388 million of total debt in the June quarter.
Over the last 12 full quarters since we closed the Microsemi acquisition, and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we have paid down almost $4 billion of the debt and continue to allocate substantially all our excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down this debt. We have accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this time period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business, as well as our ongoing operating discipline.
We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years. Our adjusted EBITDA in the June quarter was a record $711.7 million and our trailing 12 month adjusted EBITDA was also a record of at $2.524 billion.
Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA excluding our very long-dated convertible debt that matures in 2037. And there’s more equity-like in nature was 3.34 at June 30, 2021, down from 3.71 at March 31. Our dividend payment in the June quarter was $113.1 million.
Capital expenditures were $86.3 million in the June quarter. Our forecast for the September 2021 quarter’s capital expenditures is between $75 million and 95 million. Our capital expenditures for all of fiscal year 2022 are expected to be between $300 million and $350 million. As a reminder, our fiscal year 2021 capital expenditures came in lower than originally planned due to longer equipment lead times and deliveries pushing out due to overall industry conditions.
We continue to add capital equipment to maintain, grow and operate our internal manufacturing operations to support the expected growth of our business. We expect these capital investments will bring gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control over our production during periods of industry-wide constraints. Depreciation expense in the June quarter was $41.2 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the June quarter, as well as our guidance for the September quarter. Ganesh?
Ganesh Moorthy
Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Our June quarter results continued to be strong, leading off our fiscal year 2022 on a positive note. June quarter revenue was an all time record of $1.57 billion growing 7% sequentially, and was 150 basis points higher than the midpoint of our guidance provided on May 5. On a year-over-year basis, our June quarter revenue was up 19.8%.
Non-GAAP gross margins were another record and 64.8% up 70 basis points from the March quarter as we continue to ramp our internal factories and benefit from improved fixed cost absorption. Non-GAAP operating margin was also a record at 41.7% up 100 basis points from the March quarter. Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was above the high end of our guidance at a record $1.98 per share.
Adjusted EBITDA for the June quarter was again very strong and achieved another record at $701.7 million, continuing to demonstrate the robust profitability and cash generation capabilities of our business through the business cycles. The June quarter marked 123 consecutive quarter of non-GAAP profitability.
I would like to take this occasion to thank all our stakeholders who enabled us to achieve these outstanding and record results in the June quarter. And especially thank the worldwide Microchip team whose tireless efforts not only delivered our strong financial results, but also supported our customers to navigate a difficult environment and who work constructively with our supply chain partners to find creative solutions in an extremely constrained and challenging environment.
Taking a look at our business from a product line perspective, our microcontroller revenue was sequentially up 10.7% as compared to the March quarter and set a new quarterly record.
On a year-over-year basis, our June quarter microcontroller revenue was up 26%. Each of the 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontroller product lines established new all time revenue records.
As we have told you many times in the past rumors of the depth of 8-bit and 16-bit microcontrollers have been greatly exaggerated. The customers and applications served by microcontrollers, not highly fragmented, and require a wide range of solutions that span the breadth of our microcontroller product lines. Microcontrollers represented 57.5% of our revenue in the June quarter.
Our analog revenue was sequentially up 4.1% as compared to the March quarter, also setting a record in the process. On a year-over-year basis, our June quarter analog revenue was up 16.7%. Analog represented 27.5% of our revenue in the June quarter.
Other revenue was sequentially up 5.1% in the June quarter, bouncing back from a 6.4% sequential decline in the March quarter. Other revenue represented 15% of our revenue in the June quarter.
Taking a look at our business from a geographic perspective, Americas was up 6.1% sequentially. Europe was down 2.3% sequentially, which is better than typical seasonal performance and came off of a very strong 30.4% sequential growth in the March quarter. Asia was up a strong 11.1% sequentially reflecting better than typical seasonal growth.
From an end market perspective, all end markets were strong in the June quarter. Business conditions continued to be exceptionally strong through the quarter with record bookings and backlog for product to be shipped over multiple quarters accentuated by our Preferred Supply Program or PSP, which continues to be over 50% of our aggregate backlog and 100% of our backlog in the most constrained capacity product areas.
Demand outpaced the capacity improvements we were able to make or we were able to implement in the quarter. As a result our unsupported backlog, which customers want to shipped in the June quarter continued to climb significantly resulting in lead time for many line items continuing to stretch out. We experienced constraints and all of our internal and external factories and their related manufacturing supply chains. We continue to work closely with our supply chain partners who provide wafer foundry, assembly, test and materials to secure additional capacity wherever possible. Through the combination of internal and external actions that we have taken, we expect we will be in a position to support revenue growth for at least each of the next four quarters.
Despite that, we also expect that wafer fab as well as assembly and test constraints will persist through at least the middle of 2022. We believe our backlog position, especially the proportion of PSP backlog is giving us a solid foundation to prudently acquire constrained raw materials, invest in expanding factory capacity, and hire employees to support our factory ramps.
Our capital spending plans are rising in response to growth opportunities in our business, as well as to fill gaps in the level of capacity investments by our outsourced fab, assembly and test partners in technologies that they may consider to be trailing edge, but which we believe will be workhorse technologies for us for many years to come. The increase in capital spending will enable us to capitalize on growth opportunities and improve our gross margins, increase our market share, and give us more control over our destiny for trailing edge technologies. We will of course continue to utilize the capacity available from our outsourced partners. But our goal is to be less constrained by their investment priorities which may not align with ours. We also expect that while our capital intensity may be slightly higher in any given year, and the 3% to 4% of revenue guidance we have provided in the past. When looked at in the context of a rolling three year view, we believe we will very much be in the range of our capital spending guidance.
Now, let me get into the guidance for the September quarter. Our backlog for the September quarter is very strong. In addition, we have considerable backlog requested by customers in the September quarter that currently cannot be fulfilled until later quarters despite us growing capacity from last quarter. This is because the entire semiconductor supply chain remains very constrained.
Taking all the factors we have discussed on the call today into consideration. We expect our net sales for the September quarter to be up between 3% and 7% sequentially. Our guidance range assumes continued operational constraints, some of which we will work through during the quarter, others that would carry over to be worked in future quarters. At the midpoint of our revenue guidance, our year-over-year growth for the September quarter would be 25.8%.
We believe achievement of this revenue level would be remarkable in and of itself. But even more so given how resilient our business was a year ago during the pandemic because of the diversity of our end market exposure, thus making the year-over-year comparisons that much tougher and meaningful.
For the September quarter, we expect non-GAAP gross margins to be between 64.8% and 65.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 22.8% and 23.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating profit to be between 41.6% and 42.4% of sales. And we expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $2.05 per share, and $2.17 per share. We also expect to pay down another approximately $350 million of our debt in the September quarter.
Now, we recognize that our gross and operating margin percentage guidance effectively gets us to the long-term targets we shared with you just nine months ago. We will be working to update our business model for annual growth, gross margin and operating margin percentage. And we’ll share our conclusions with you later this year.
Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges, and inventory right up on acquisitions Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track it results on a non-GAAP basis, except for net sales, which will be on a GAAP basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters, and we request that analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call.
Now, let me pass the baton to Steve to talk about our cash return to shareholders. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh and good afternoon everyone. Today, I would like to reflect on our financial results announced today and provide you further updates on our cash return strategy. Reflecting on our financial results, I continue to be very proud of all employees of Microchip that have delivered another exceptional quarter and making new records in many respects.
Namely record net sales, record non-GAAP gross margin percentage, record non-GAAP operating margin percentage, record cash flow from operations and record adjusted EBITDA also each of our strategic product lines, 8-bit, 16-bit and 32-bit microcontrollers, and analog individually achieved all time new records in net sales.
Reflecting on our journey since the acquisition of Microsemi, three years ago, I note the following. Number one, at the time of the acquisition, we provided a long-term operating model target of 40.5% non-GAAP operating margin, which we exceeded for the first time in the March 2021 quarter. And we’re significantly above that in the June 2021 quarter at 41.7%. At the time of the acquisition, we also indicated that we anticipated achieving an $8 non-GAAP EPS run rate by the end of the third year after the acquisition.
Between the $1.98 EPS for the June quarter we just announced and $2.11 EPS we guided to for the September quarter at the midpoint of our guidance. We have effectively delivered on this expectation. These exceptional results were achieved despite the numerous headwinds we faced from international trade tensions and tariffs, as well as the global pandemic, which matters were not predictable three years ago.
Number two; we financed the Microsemi acquisition by adding $8.1 billion of debt, driving up a net leverage ratio in the June 2018 quarter to 4.95, which we know was a concern for many of you. In the last three years, we have paid down a cumulative $4 billion of debt and brought our net leverage ratio down to 3.34. We continue to allocate substantially all of our cash generation beyond what we paid to shareholders in dividends to pay down significant debt every quarter.
Number three, within the last quarter based on the debt pay down, we had achieved and the continued strong cash and adjusted EBITDA generation of our business both Moody’s and Fitch, change their rating outlook from stable to a positive outlook. At the rate, we expect to pay down our debt and bring our net leverage further down. We believe we are on target to achieve an investment grade rating sometime by the end of fiscal year 2022.
Regarding our cash return strategy, we are continuing to provide more cash return to the shareholders. Just today, we announced a dividend of $43.7 per share, our third largest dividend increase by increasing the dividend by 5.8% sequentially, and 18.75% over a year ago quarter. And in the coming quarters, we expect to continue with more actions to increase the cash return to shareholders.
With that, operator will you please poll for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Absolutely. Thank you so much. [Operator Instructions] And our first question today will come from a Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs.
Toshiya Hari
Hi guys, thank you so much for taking my question and congrats on the strong results. Just wanted to ask about gross margins in the June quarter and the outlook going forward, clearly very strong results in the quarter, with margins coming in above the high end of guidance, curious, what drove the upside vis-à-vis your expectations? Was it primarily utilization rates? Or was there something else behind the beat. And, Ganesh you talked about, you guys performing already in line with your long-term model, as you think about, your ability to expand gross margins going forward. And as you in source I guess both front end wafer processing as well as assembly and test, how should we think about the potential upside there going forward? Again, in terms of gross margin. Thank you.
Ganesh Moorthy
Let me have Eric respond to the first part, and I’ll respond to the second part.
Eric Bjornholt
Okay, so your gross margin on the quarter, we are utilizing our manufacturing resources, fully at this point in time, we have more orders, and we know what to do with. And with that we’re being quite efficient in our manufacturing operation. So it’s really, best utilizing our capacity. And we’re obviously continue to make investment in capital, bringing that online as quickly as we can, increase in the percentage of assembly and test that we do internally. But the major driver was just effective utilization of what factories and equipment that we have.
Ganesh Moorthy
To your second question, give us some time to put some thought into how we see gross margins building over time, what the long-term model should be. And we will come back to you later this year with a more complete picture of what that will be and what the drivers will be. Many of them are what you just described, which is as we do more in sourcing. There’s a richer product mix that comes into play, there’s pricing discipline. Those are all going to be important parts. But we need some time to process where we are, where we can get to, how we get there and then we’ll come back to you with some numbers.
Toshiya Hari
Understood. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And next we’ll hear from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse.
John Pitzer
Yes, guys, congratulations on a strong results. Thanks for let me ask the question. Ganesh, it’s pretty astounding that disti inventories are now down to 20 days, it kind of makes the disti model, kind of a little bit less valuable. I’m kind of curious, what is the risk that your end customers can’t rely on disti and so there’s more of an inventory build going on there, then you can see, one. And two, on the more positive, given what’s happening in disti and this idea of just in time inventory management, going to just in case, do you see yourself getting closer to end customers over time, strategically? And what might that mean for margins?
Ganesh Moorthy
John, the distribution inventory is low, in part because we are constrained right? So distributors continue to serve as customers. But we are not able to help them grow their inventory. At some point, we will be able to as we get our production up to be able to ship them more for them to help build that. But for the moment, neither their customers nor distribution has the ability to grow inventory in any meaningful form.
When we look at, where are the number of customer requests we’re getting either direct or indirect through distribution on shortages, lines downs and all that, it’s pretty well represented across the spectrum. It isn’t that one group of customers is doing better than the other. There are a large number of customers who are unable to get what they want, and are in the short or medium term, trying to get more product. In some cases trying to get product through, more than one source if they can, but the constraints are all over the place. And so I’m not seeing channel inventory or customer inventory building in a way that, you can read something into the distribution, days of inventory.
John Pitzer
And Ganesh, so my second half of the question does this change the distribution model structurally for you, and is there an opportunity to get closer to customers, and maybe capture some of that disti margin that you’re giving them now?
Ganesh Moorthy
So, we have 125ish, 125,000 or so customers we serve. Clearly distribution is an important part of that model to reach that long tail of customers. And customers make the final choice on where do they want to buy, they have an opportunity to buy direct, they have an opportunity to buy from our web channel, they have an opportunity to buy from distribution. And they buy from distribution when they see that the value that distribution is bringing them in support, in payment terms and pipelining of inventory and other ways that distribution adds value is good for them.
But, we continue to serve customers through the channel that they find to be the most effective for them. And if that is someone who wants to move direct, so be it for someone who wants to stay with channels, so be it. But whatever relatively channel agnostic and what we’re doing, clearly in a time of escalation, more distribution customers are reaching through directly to us to get help. But that does not necessarily mean that they will shift off of distribution and then to us directly.
Eric Bjornholt
John, I will add that carrying inventory for customers is only one part of the value that distribution provides. And clearly, they have very low inventory today. Also to do with our inability to shape but that’s not the only value distribution provides. They provide kitting, payment terms, programming, they provide all sorts of services for which they charge. So, I think distribution will continue to be an important element of Microchips go-to-market strategy, which reaches a very, very long tail.
John Pitzer
Okay, Eric. Thank you.
Eric Bjornholt
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. And next, we’ll hear from Vivek Arya with Bank of America Securities.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. You gave a 3% to 7% on sequential growth rate for the September quarter; it’s kind of in line with the sequential growth rates, we have seen in the last few quarters. Is this being really driven by supply growth, and if that is the case, how should we think about incremental supply that could come online in the next several quarters? Because I believe Ganesh has said that you expect to grow sequentially for the next four quarters, if I heard correctly. So, should we be keeping this 3% to 7% sequential growth rate in mind, as we try to model out the next four quarters? Thanks.
Ganesh Moorthy
So, I want to be clear, we’re not providing any kind of guidance that goes beyond the September quarter. We are clearly working on supply improvements. And today, all of our growth is constrained not by demand, but by supply. There are supply improvements were making that are in our control, which is what runs through our manufacturing internally, what we are doing there to increase capacity in each of our fabs at our assembly, our tests, we’re working with our supply chain partners who bring us materials and all of that.
And we’re working on capacity improvements with our partners that we do outsourced work through. So, I think, we’ll give you the quarter-by-quarter growth, as we get to the guidance for the December and March and June quarters and all that. But I think what we do see is enough capacity coming on in the subsequent quarters. And the timing is a bit hard to call because, we don’t have a stable environment in which we know exactly what equipment will come on, when will bring on the capacity and all that. But we’re confident enough in how we see capacity coming on that we do expect that each of the next four quarters will have growth in there.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And next we’ll hear from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO.
Ambrish Srivastava
Hi, thank you. Can we get back to the PSP program? I think you we’re 44% of the business was under that and Ganesh you said over 50% is there a natural feeling to this? And it kind of tied to that getting back to the capacity. And this must be a tougher equation to get to, is it’s a very fragmented industry, both microcontroller and analog. So, how do you balance capacity increase versus what others are doing, it’s not like DRAM, but there’s only three guys and everybody kind of thinks they know what the other person is doing. So, Ganesh and Steve, how do you balance the capacity increase versus down the road when there could be a potential oversupply?
Ganesh Moorthy
Let me start first on the PSP question, right. Our PSP backlog exiting the June quarter was over 50%. And it grew throughout the quarter. And we have customers continuing to enroll in the program, as well as extend the time that they’re providing us the backlog. But, the metric is really something that was important to us to convey during the early stages of launching the PSP program. And so at this point in time, rather than trying to provide a, month-by-month or quarter-by-quarter update, it’s a part of our normal business that we’re doing. Certain capacity corridors, as I’ve explained, are 100% booked already, and we will just manage it, it gives us visibility, it gives us a better ability to service those customers who have long-term backlog that they can place, that are not just non-cancelable. That was the whole objective of what we did.
And then to your second question, in many ways, PSP is one element of what we have, that helps us to make sure that the other side of the cycle whenever it is, can be managed well. We’re also bringing capacity on, in measured steps, we’re not trying to, get all of the unsupported done in a short period of time. So every quarter, we’re increasing capacity. And so combination of what we’re doing with measured steps and capacity, what we’re doing with the PSP program, and all of that gives us reasonable confidence to be able to manage the cycle in such a way that we don’t get over committed on the capacity side.
Ambrish Srivastava
That makes sense. Thank you.
Operator
And thank you so much. Our next question will come from Harsh Kumar with Piper Sandler.
Harsh Kumar
Yes, Hey, guys, first of all, congratulations on the stellar results. I had actually a couple I want to go back to the question that Vivek asked about growth for the next four quarters. So, let me see if I understand this correctly Ganesh, you expect supply constrains for the next four quarters. But you also expect demand environment to remain pretty solid or robust. And therefore you’re pretty comfortable forecasting growth for the revenue growth in the next four quarters, are you just referring to that you will have enough supply to be able to meet your demand exist?
Ganesh Moorthy
We have a very strong demand backlog on us. We have a substantial portion of PSP backlog on us. We continue to have a large amount that were – that is unsupported. So the demand environment we see is very, very strong. Now, the balance is really what can we supply? And how much can we bring on? And our supply lines as we can see continue to give us the ability to bring more supply on quarter-after, quarter-after-quarter for at least the next four quarters, giving us that line of sight into having the capability to take advantage of that demand and grow every quarter.
Harsh Kumar
Understood, than