Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ:MCHP) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call May  7, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Eric Bjornholt - SVP & CFO
Ganesh Moorthy - President & COO
Steve Sanghi - Chairman & CEO
Conference Call Participants
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO Financial Group
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo
Craig Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Chris Danely - Citi
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
William Stein - SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Ari Shusterman - Needham & Company
Craig Ellis - B. Riley FBR
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Microchip's Q4 and Fiscal 2020 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participant's line are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] And please be advised that today's call is being recorded. [Operator instructions]
Now I would like to turn the conference over to your speaker today Mr. Eric Bjornholt, Microchip's Financial Officer. Sir, please go ahead.
Eric Bjornholt
Thank you and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip's business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are Steve Sanghi, Microchip's Chairman and CEO and Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip's President and COO. I will comment on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2020 financial performance. And Steve and Ganesh will then give their comments on the results and discuss the current business environment as well as our guidance. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We are including information in our press release and in this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website.
I will now go through some of the operating results including net sales, gross margin and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of acquisition activities, share based compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release.
I will now go through some the operating results including net sales, gross margin and operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of acquisition activities, share-based compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release.
Net sales in the March quarter were $1.326 billion which was up 3% sequentially and above our revised guidance for March 02, 2020, but net sales were expected to be about flat sequentially. We've posted a summary of our GAAP net sales as well as end market demand by product line and geography on our website for your reference.
On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were strong at 62%, operating expenses were at 25.4% and operating income was 36.6% compared to 35.1% in the previous quarter. Non-GAAP net income was $375.5 million, non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.46, which was up significantly from $1.32 for this in the prior quarter. On a GAAP basis in the March quarter, gross margins were 61.4% and include the impact of $5.1 million of share-based compensation and $3.3 million of COVID19 shelter in place restrictions on manufacturing activities, total operating expenses were $653.2 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $248.5 million special charges of $17.2 million, $15.3 million of acquisition related and other costs and share based compensation of $35.6 million.

The GAAP net income was $99.9 million or $0.39 per diluted share. At March quarter GAAP tax benefit was impacted by a variety of factors including tax reserve releases associated with the statute of limitations expiring, deferred tax adjustments related to intercompany movement of intellectual property, tax reserve releases associated with tax audits and other matters.
For fiscal year 2020 net sales were $5.274 billion. On a non-GAAP basis gross margin were a record 61.9%, operating expenses were 25.7% of sales and operating income was 36.2% of sales. Non-GAAP net income was $1.44 billion and EPS was $5.62 per diluted share. On a GAAP basis gross margins were 61.5%, operating expenses were 49.2% of sales and operating income was 12.3% of sales. Net income was $570.6 million and EPS was $2.23 per diluted share.
The non-GAAP cash tax rate was 7% in the March quarter and 6.3% for fiscal year 2020. We expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal '21 to be between 6% and 7% exclusive of the transition tax, any potential tax associated with the restructuring, with the Microsemi operations in the Microchip's global structure and tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
We have many tax attributes and net operating losses and tax credits as well as US interest deductions that we believe will keep our cash tax payments low. The future cash tax payments associated with the transition tax are expected to be about $245 million that we paid over the next six years. We posted a schedule of these projected transition tax payments on the IR page of our website.
Our inventory balance at March 31, 2020 was $685.7 million. We had 122 days of inventory at the end of the March quarter down seven days from the prior quarter's level. Inventory at our distributors in the March quarter were at 29 days compared to 28 days at the end of December. We believe distribution inventory levels for Microchip are still quite low compared to historical averages.
In the March quarter, we exchanged cash and shares of our common stock to retire $650 million of principal plus accrued interest of out 2025 convertible senior subordinated notes. The cash used to pay the principal on this exchange was funded by 364 day bridge loan. This exchange will significantly reduce your count solution to the extent Microchip stock price appreciates in the future.
During the quarter, we also amended our credit facility. As disclosed in our March 21, 2020 press release, the total leverage and senior leverage covenants were favorably modified as part of the amendment giving Microchip greater financial flexibility. The cash flow from operating activities was $371.7 million in the March quarter. As of March 31, the consolidated cash and total investment position was $403 million. We paid down $236 million of total debt in the March quarter.
Over the last seven full quarters since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we've paid down $2.222 billion of debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends to aggressively bring down the debt. We've accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our businesses as well as our ongoing operating discipline.
We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next several years. Our adjusted EBITDA in the March quarter was $548.1 million and our trailing 12 month adjusted EBITDA was $2.129 billion. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA excluding our very long dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and is more equity like in nature was $4.46 at March 31, 2020 and our dividend payment in the March quarter was $88 million.

Capital expenditures were $11.9 million in the March quarter and $67.6 million for fiscal year 2020. We expect between $12 million and $18 million in capital spending in the June quarter and overall capital expenditures for fiscal '21 to be between $50 million and $70 million. We continue to add capital to maintain and operate our internal manufacturing operations, support the production capabilities for our new products and technologies as well as to selectively bring in house some of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect these capital investments will bring some gross margin improvement to our business, particularly for the outsourced Atmel and Microsemi manufacturing activities that we are bringing into our own factories. Depreciation expense in the March quarter was $41.8 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give his comments on the performance of the business in the March quarter. Ganesh.
Ganesh Moorthy
Thank you, Eric and good afternoon, everyone. Let's start by taking a closer look at microcontrollers. On a GAAP basis our microcontroller revenue was sequentially up 5.9% as compared to the December quarter. From an end market demand standpoint our microcontroller business was sequentially up 2.9%. From an end market standpoint [indiscernible] microcontrollers in the March quarter represent an all-time record of just over $349 or 47% of our microcontroller demand.
We continue to introduce a steady stream of innovative new microcontrollers, including a new cryptography enabled 32 bit microcontroller designed to stop malware for systems that boot from flash memory as well as a new high end [indiscernible] microcontroller product family for improved designs in real-time control and connected applications. Microcontrollers overall represented 55.2% of our end market demand in the March quarter.
Last month Gartner released their microcontroller market share report for 2019. We're pleased to report that Microchip retain the number one position 8-Bit or 8-Bit microcontrollers. Once again we gained market share as we grew faster in the overall 8-Bit market. In fact we are now twice as big as a number two player. In the 16-bit microcontroller market we remained at a number five position and continue to gain market share as we grew faster than the overall 16-bit microcontroller market:
In the 32-bit microphone market, we remained at a number six position for the Gartner report and gained significant market share again as we grew faster than the overall 32-bit microphone market. These results are despite Gartner rolling up our 32-bit microcontroller revenues to be about $400 million lower than the $1.2 billion results we actually achieved in 2019.
Had Gartner used our actual calendar year 2019 32-bit microcontroller results, we would have achieved a number four ranking and as I shared with you earlier our 32-bit microphone business in the March quarter ran at a approximately $1.36 billion annualized run rate based on end market demand. For microcontroller overall, we remained at a three number position despite Gartner rolling up our revenue to be about $400 million lower than our publicly reported results for calendar year 2019.
By using our publicly reported results, we would be approximately 7.5% away from the number two player and 16.5% away from the number one player ahead of us as we continue to relentlessly march towards number one spot. Our microcontroller portfolio and roadmap had never been stronger. We believe we have the new product momentum and customer engagement to continue to gain even more share in 2020 as we farther build the best performing microcontroller franchise in the industry.
Now moving to analogue, on a GAAP basis our revenue was sequentially up 1.1% as compared to the December quarter. From an end market standpoint our analog business was sequentially down 1.8%. During the quarter, we continue to introduce a steady stream of innovative analog products, including the industry's first space qualified radiation tolerant Ethernet transceiver as well as an expanded silicon carbide family of power electronics to provide system level improvements in efficiency, size and reliability with 700 volt, 1200 volt and 1700 volt power modules. Analog represented 27.6% of our end market in the March quarter.

Our FPGA revenue on a GAAP basis was up 4.6% sequentially as compared to the December quarter. From an end market demand standpoint our FPGA business was sequentially up 1%. FPGA represented 7% of our end market demand in the March quarter. Our licensing, memory and other product lines, which we refer to as LMO was sequentially down 10.7% as compared to the December quarter from an end market demand perspective.
During the quarter we introduced a new miniaturized rubidium atomic clock, the industry's highest performance atomic clock for its size and power. LMO represented 10.1% of our end market demand in the March quarter. An update regarding coronavirus and its impact on our operations. We have had nine employees who tested positive for the virus with over 18,000 employees worldwide this was inevitable but thankfully they're all recovering nicely or have already recovered. Most of our non-factory employee base is working from home as we rapidly transformed business processes to run the marketing.
Our global team have been highly engaged, collaborative and productive under the circumstances, resulting in enhanced customer engagement for new designs and high effectiveness in our product developed programs. We would like to thank our worldwide team for rapidly adapting to changing conditions and making the best of workflows possible under difficult circumstances to continue delivering results.
Our manufacturing operations have varying degrees of constraint last quarter as what started the China shutting down for several weeks, expanded to many other locations that shutdown. Our operations team minimally adjusted to constraint as they emerge and implement our contingency plans where needed, to ensure that we continue to serve customer needs despite the challenges. In most of our manufacturing locations, we were able to get essential services designation as our products are quite ubiquitous in medical, work from home, defense and communication infrastructure applications.
Our Philippines operations had the largest impact with restriction of people movement, being so strict that we've had a large number of our dedicated employees living in our two factory there since mid-March to support production and customer shipments. Our global team also successfully worked through a myriad of ground and air logistics issues throughout the quarter as conditions change regionally over time.
Our customers and our supply chain partners also endure constraints with their factories and logistics have made the March quarter challenging. We are appreciative of our global people engaged and work through a rolling step of customer and supplier challenges even as we work through challenge and constraints have a place on our own factories.
Pandemics are inherently unpredictable and there maybe yet other twists and turns to come in the days ahead. We continue to process the news daily as well as monitor information from the center for disease control and the World Health Organization and we will adopt our response as needed and focus on the things that we can control.
Given the current market uncertainties, we are providing some qualitative insight into our principal end markets. The area of strength we see are data center driven by continued strength from the exponential rate at which data has been created and the consequent seemingly insatiable with demand for data storage. For computers, printers, monitors and other accessories enabled by the increased shift to working from home, for medical devices COVID19 related items like ventilators, respirators, oxygen monitor and ultrasound machines but also a host of other hospital equipment needed for increased patient loads.
For contact-free consumer and industrial product like hands-free dispensers or soap, water, paper, hand sanitizers for infrared thermometers as well as barcode readers for retail shopping all in an attempt to prevent the spread of COVID19 and then for communication infrastructure in part because of work from home related network loading changes but also in part due to stimulus investments in infrastructure especially in China. The area of the weakness we've seen from an end market perspective on automotive, broad based industrial, consumer home appliances and aviation or aerospace. Our defense and space business remains relatively even here.

Let me now pass it to Steve for some comments about our business and our guidance going forward. Steve?
Steve Sanghi
Thank you, Ganesh and good afternoon, everyone. Today I would like to first reflect on the results of the fiscal fourth quarter of 2020 and the whole fiscal year 2020. I'll then provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter of 2021. The March quarter had unusual business challenges as the effects of COVID19 pandemic unfolded in many dimensions. I'm proud of how rapidly the Microchip team adapted to the new constraints we faced so that our employees would be safe, our customers will be well served and our partners engage to ensure mutual success despite the challenges we face.
Despite the COVID19 pandemic challenges we deliver 3% sequential net sales growth as compared to our early March updated guidance, which was for net sales to be about flat. Our final March quarter GAAP net sales came in at $1.326 billion up 3% percent sequentially and down just to 0.3% from a year ago March quarter. Our end market demand based on sell-through was approximately $3.8 million lower than GAAP sales.
After seven quarters of end market demanding higher than selling based net sales, March quarter was nearly even for end market demand versus selling net sales. We also delivered outstanding non-GAAP gross margin of 52% just above the high-end of our original guidance from February 04, 2020 and non-GAAP operating margin of 36.6% near the high-end of our original guidance and we did all that while reducing our days of inventory from 129 days to 122 days.
Our consolidated non-GAAP EPS was $1.46. We did not provide EPS guidance when we revised our net sales guiding on March 02, 2020. Our original non-GAAP EPS guidance provided with our earnings release on February 04, 2020 was $1.35 to $1.51 with the midpoint of $1.43 and we beat the original guidance by $0.03. On a non-GAAP basis this was also our 118 consecutive profitable quarter.
In the March quarter, we paid down $236 million of our debt. Our total debt payment since the end of June 2018 has been about $2.22 billion. The pace of debt payments have been strong despite the week and uncertain business conditions underlining the strong cash generation characteristics of our business as well as our active efforts to continue to squeeze working capital efficiency. On a full fiscal year 2020 basis our net sales was $5.274 billion down 1.4% over fiscal year 2019.
Now I'll discuss our guidance for the June quarter. Ganesh in his prepared remarks discussed the impact we are seeing on our supply chain as well as our customers. Ganesh also described the end markets where we are seeing strength and those where we are seeing either current or expected weakness. Our March quarter bookings were up double digit percentage over the December quarter booking. The book-to-bill ratio for March quarter was very strong at 1.17. That resulted in our starting backlog for June quarter to be strong compared to the starting backlog for the March quarter.
In April H 2020 press release, we said that we believe that the strength in bookings maybe a result of customer concerns about supply chain disruption due to COVID19 virus. With economies around the world contracting rapidly with millions of people getting laid out and with customer factory closures due to sheltering place, ordinances in various countries we believe that product demand is likely to weaken significantly.
With another month under our belt now, we have seen some of the customer order pushouts and cancellations. Our backlog for the June quarter compared to the backlog for March quarter at the same point in time has now deteriorated somewhat in the last month. We believe the backlog position compared to March quarter will continue to deteriorate due to the combined effects of supply chain disruption, customer factory closures and demand destruction. Taking all these factors into consideration, we expect our net sales for June quarter to be down 2% to 10% sequentially.

The guidance ranges to help account for the uncertainty associated with the evolving coronavirus situation. We have no way to model how the rest of the quarter will play out for the coronavirus situation and what the consequent business impact may be but we believe that our guidance range incorporates our best judgment for the possible scenarios. We have prepared the company for a downside scenario by putting the employees on a 10% salary cut and are adjusting the factory by reduced work hours or rotating time offs. We have also frozen all business travel and cut discretionary expenses.
Regarding CapEx, we finished fiscal year 2020 with a CapEx of $67.6 million, a significant reduction from fiscal year '19 CapEx of $229 million. This is consistent with what we have said before that our CapEx is divided between growth capital, maintenance capital and new products and technology capital. In a fiscal year like 2020 in which our net sales declined, the growth capital which is the largest portion of CapEx declines to virtually nothing and therefore the total CapEx declined significantly. We expect CapEx for fiscal year '21 to remain low in the range of $50 million to $70 million.
For June quarter we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 60.4% and 61.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 24.4% and 25.2% of sales. We expect non-GAAP operating profit to be between 35.2% and 36.8% of sales and we expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $1.25 per share to $1.45 per share.
We believe that despite the near-term pandemic-driven challenges, we are confident in the strength and diversity of the businesses and end markets we are in to achieve long-term growth in excess of the average semiconductor market growth. Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on a non-GAAP basis except for net sales which will be on a GAAP basis.
We believe that non-GAAP provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters and we request that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates through first call.
With that operator, will you please poll for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator instructions].
Eric Bjornholt
Yeah I don’t think that's possible. Let's stay open here for a while. Our Investor Relations manager is just indicating that we're having quite a few problems here. So let's hold and see if we can this solved. I know there is questions to be asked. So I've been told we have 12 questions in queue. We just need to figure out how to get them available so those questions can be asked/
Operator
Your first question is from the line of Chris Caso from Raymond James. Sir please go ahead.
Chris Caso
Yes. Thank you. Appreciate that. So I guess for the first question, Steve if you could give us some thoughts about perhaps the magnitude of the downturn that I guess we're all expecting. I realize that's a difficult question with what's going on with the backlog here, but I guess compare with some of your competitors have compared what we're seeing now to the 2009 cycle. I'm not sure if that's the right way to look at it right now, but I guess Microchip is also a different company as compared 2009 and what you're guiding to is not quite as bad. As we put all that together, how are you thinking about things going forward?
Ganesh Moorthy
So I think we're really unable to speak about anybody else's business but our own. We mentioned some of the companies, I believe all companies have a different end market and customer exposure. We have been building this franchise for many years now through organic efforts as well as acquisitions and have compiled the very large number of very, very good assets and then deployed a program called TSS, Total System Solutions that we have discussed with you in which we are garnering larger and larger share of the customer's board with our product.

So the outperformance that you may be seeing from us in business today is really nothing to do with what we have done today or last year it's been a result of really many years of effort and new products organically as well as through acquisitions and our customer support, customer support activities, the distributor relationships and everything else over the past several years. I don’t know if that helps you.
Chris Caso
Okay I guess perhaps you could take us through what you've seen in the order rates and you put through some of that in your prepared remarks about what you've been seeing since March. I guess what's interesting now is that the customers came in, the channel at least came into this crises with very low inventory levels and that's I guess unusual in a downturn in our industry. How does that affect things going forward and what sort of visibility do you have on what customers may be doing with the inventory levels here?
Ganesh Moorthy
So this is a very unique cycle. We have for the first time ever we're experiencing a demand shock and a supply shock. We have seen demand shock before like 2008, 2009 cycle you mentioned. We also saw a major demand shock during the 2001 tech burst and I think we saw a little mini demand shock really even during SARS in 2004 or 2003 whenever it was. And we have seen some supply shocks from our industry the two that I remember, one was during tsunami in Japan and Southeast Asia where we have a number of factories were closed down or shut down and there was a major demand shock and the other demand shock I recall was during the major floods in Thailand a few years ago where many of our peers factories were under water. Microchip factory was okay though.
So we've seen really either a supply shock or a demand shock. This in the first time ever in my 40 years of experience that I am seeing a simultaneous demand shock and supply shock. The supply shock is driven by this various shelter in place ordinances and Ganesh talked about it extensively, Philippines being the worst and Malaysia being the second where we could get our workers into the factory and in some cases, the workers are living in the factory believe they believe they will not be able to come back and number of our product lines that ran in those factories produced limited output because the whole workforce wasn't working. That resulted into a supply shortage and a supply shock in some of the lead times run out and that drove some of the demand further from customers and distributors.
And on the demand side of it, our customer's factories shut down, the worst being in the automotive business where I think you guys keep track of file data and if you look at the file data, you'll find that Europe has been the worst and US the second and lot of factories were shut down in Asia also but those factories are coming back in automotive. So the automotive business is going through this [indiscernible] demand shock and industrial somewhat and while on the other had like you look at the market like data centers where demand shock is in the upward direction with all the data and work from home ordinances their demand has gone up and the other area which is really quite sleepy for us in general, I don't think it's a very large percentage of our business is medical. We melt that into industrial, the medical is really we contact in industrial but a month and a half ago, I wouldn't know what a ventilator was and now we found that all the ventilator designs around the world ,everyone is using our products and the demand has gone up 100X if not more.
The hospital will have two to three ventilators only for emergency purposes and now a single hospital is requiring 1,000 to 2,000 ventilators. So that demand has gone up 50X to 100X. Same thing on digital thermometers to automatic soap dispensers and bathroom products that when you put your hand into the soap falls down, they all use microcontrollers or senses or many of our products. So that's kind of the end market here.

So in certain markets demand is very strong. In other market, demand is very weak. In some cases they're impacted because of supply chain disruption, in other cases the impact is because of stronger demand. So I think you know how do you make sense with all that? We started June quarter with a very strong backlog and our backlog for June quarter is still higher than our backlog was for the March quarter at the same point in time, but it has deteriorated significantly compared to where it was on April 1 and at the rate we're seeing customer's adjustments, push outs and cancellation where the customer may have ordered more product really shows up that this deterioration in backlog in June compared to March will continue.
We know how much we lost in one monthly. We got two more months to go and putting all that into the equation really our crystal ball tells us in the midpoint of minus six and it end up minus two to minus 10. Sorry for the long answer but the question deserved it.
Chris Caso
I think that's the discussion we're looking for.
