NVIDIA Corp (NASDAQ:NVDA) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call May 21, 2020  5:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Simona Jankowski - VP, IR
Jensen Huang - Co-Founder, CEO, President & Director
Colette Kress - EVP & CFO
Conference Call Participants
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities
Stacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Christopher Muse - Evercore ISI
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs Group
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Timothy Arcuri - UBS Investment Bank
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
William Stein - SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
John Pitzer - Crédit Suisse
Matthew Ramsay - Cowen and Company
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Josh, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to NVIDIA's Financial Results Conference call. [Operator Instructions].
Simona Jankowski, you may begin your conference.
Simona Jankowski
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the first quarter of fiscal 2021. With me on the call today from NVIDIA are Jensen Huang, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations website. The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2021. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent. 
During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may vary materially. For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All our statements are made as of today, May 21, 2020, based on information currently available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements. 
During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our website. 
With that, let me turn the call over to Jensen.
Jensen Huang
Thanks, Simona. Before Colette describes our quarterly results, I'd like to thank those who are on the front lines of this crisis, first responders, health care workers, service providers, who inspires every day with their bravery and selflessness. I also want to acknowledge the incredible efforts of our colleagues here at NVIDIA. Despite many challenges, they have barely broken stride during one of the busiest periods in our history. 
Our efforts related to the virus are focused in 3 areas. First, we're taking care of our families and communities. We've pooled in raises by 6 months to put more money in our employees' hands, and NVIDIA and our people have donated thus far more than $10 million to those in need. 
Second, we're using NVIDIA's unique capabilities to fight the virus. A great deal of science being done on COVID-19 uses NVIDIA technology for acceleration when every second counts. Some of the many examples, including sequencing the virus, analyzing drug candidates, imaging the virus at molecular resolution with cryo-electron microscopy and identifying elevated body temperature with AI cameras. 
And third, because COVID-19 won't be the last killer virus, we need to be ready for the next outbreak. NVIDIA technology is essential for the scientific community to develop an end-to-end computational defense system, a system that can detect early, accelerate the development of a vaccine, contain the spread of disease and continuously test and monitor. 

We are racing to deploy the NVIDIA Clara computational health care platforms, Clara Parabricks can accelerate genomics analysis from days to minutes. Clara Imaging will continue to partner with leading research institutes to develop state-of-the-art AI models to detect infections, and Clara Guardian will connect AI to cameras and microphones and hospitals to help overloaded staff watch over patients. 
We completed the acquisition of Mellanox on April 27. Mellanox is now NVIDIA's networking brand and business unit and will be reported as part of our data center market platform, and Israel is now one of NVIDIA's major technology centers. 
The new NVIDIA has a much larger footprint in data center computing, end-to-end and full-stack expertise in data center architectures and tremendous scale to accelerate innovation. NVIDIA Mellanox are a perfect combination and position us for the major forces shaping the IT industry today, data center scale computing and AI. 
From micro service cloud applications to machine learning and AI, accelerated computing and high-performance networking are critical to modern data centers. Previously, a CPU compute node was the unit of computing. Going forward, the new unit of computing is an entire data center. The basic computing elements are now storage servers, CPU servers and GPU servers, and are composed and orchestrated by hyperscale applications that are serving millions of users simultaneously. Connecting these computing elements together is the high-performance Mellanox networking. This is the era of data center scale computing. And together, NVIDIA Mellanox can architect end to end. Mellanox is an extraordinary company, and I'm thrilled that we're now one force to invent the future together. 
Now let me turn the call over to Colette.
Colette Kress
Thanks, Jensen. Against the backdrop of the extraordinary events unfolding around the globe, we had a very strong quarter. Q1 revenue was $3.08 billion, up 39% year-on-year, down 1% sequentially and slightly ahead of our outlook, reflecting upside in our data center and gaming platforms. 
Starting with gaming. Revenue of $1.34 billion was up 27% year-on-year and down 10% sequentially. We are pleased with these results, which exceeded expectations in the quarter, marked by the unprecedented challenge of the COVID-19. Let me give you some color. Early in Q1, as the epidemic unfolded, demand in China was impacted with iCafes closing for an extended period. As the virus spread globally, much of the world started working and learning from home, and gameplay surged. Globally, we have seen 50% rise in gaming hours played on our GeForce platform, driven both by more people playing and more gameplay per user. 
With many retail outlets closed, demand for our products has shifted quite efficiently to e-tail channels globally. Gaming laptops revenue accelerated to its fastest year-on-year growth in 6 quarters. We are working with our OEMs, channel partners to meet the growing needs of the professionals and students engaged in working, learning and playing at home. In early April, our global OEM partners announced a record new 100 NVIDIA GeForce-powered laptops with availability starting in Q1 and the most to ship in Q2. These laptops are the first to use our high-end GeForce RTX 2080 SUPER and 2070 SUPER GPUs, which have been available for desktop since last summer. 
In addition, OEMs are bringing to market laptops based on the RTX 2060 GPU at just $999, a price point that enables a larger audience to take advantage of the power and features of RTX, including its unique ray tracing and AI capabilities. These launches are well-timed as mobile and remote computing needs accelerate. 
The global rise in gaming also lifted sales of NVIDIA Nintendo Switch and our console business, driving strong growth both sequentially and year-over-year. We collaborated with Microsoft and Mojang to bring RTX ray tracing to Minecraft, the world's most popular game with over 100 million gamers monthly and over 100 billion total views on YouTube. Minecraft with RTX looks astounding with realistic shadows and reflections. Light that reflects, refracts and scatters through surfaces as naturalistic effects like fog. Reviews for it are off the charts. Ars Technica called it a jaw-dropping stunner, and PC World said it was glorious to behold. 

Our RTX technology stands apart, not only with our 2-year lead in ray tracing but with its use of AI to speed up and enhance games using the Tensor Core silicon on our RTX class GPUs. We introduced the next version of our AI algorithm called Deep Learning Super Sampling. In real time, DLSS 2.0 can fill the missing bits from every frame, doubling performance. It represents a major step function from the original, and it can be trained on nongaming-specific images, making it universal and easy to implement. 
The value and momentum of our RTX GPUs continue to grow. We have a significant upgrade opportunity over the next year with the rise and tide of RTX-enabled games, including major blockbusters like Minecraft and Cyberpunk. Let me also touch on our game streaming service, GFN, which exited beta this quarter. It gives gamers access to more than 650 games with another 1,500 in line to get onboarded. These include Epic Games, Fortnite, which is the most played game on GFN; and other popular titles such as CONTROL, Destiny 2 and League of Lighting in the fall. Since launching in February, GFN has added 2 million users around the world, with both sign-ups and hours of gameplays boosted by stay-at-home measures. GFN expands our market reach to the billions of gamers with underpowered devices. It is the most publisher-friendly, developer-friendly game streaming service with the greatest number of games and the only one that supports ray tracing. 
Moving to Pro Visualization. Revenue was $307 million, up 15% year-on-year and down 7% sequentially. Year-on-year revenue growth accelerated in Q1 driven by laptop workstations and Turing adoption. 
We are seeing continued momentum in our ecosystem for RTX ray tracing. We now have RTX support for all major rendering visualization and design software packages, including Autodesk Maya, Dassault's CATIA, Pixar's RenderMan, Chaos Group's V-Ray and many others. Autodesk has announced that the latest release of VRED, its automotive 3D visualization software, supports NVIDIA RTX GPUs. This enables designers to take advantage of RTX to produce more like-life designs in a fraction of the time versus CPU-based systems. Over 45 leading creative and design applications now take advantage of RTX, driving a sustained upgrade opportunity for Quadro-powered systems while also expanding their reach. 
We see strong demand in verticals, including health care, media and entertainment and higher education, among others. Higher health care demand was fueled in part by COVID-19 related research at Siemens, Oxford and Caption Health. Caption Health received FDA clearance for an update to its AI-guided ultrasound, making it easier to perform diagnostics-quality cardiac ultrasounds. And in media and entertainment, demand increased as companies like Disney deployed remote workforce initiatives. 
Turning to automotive and robotic autonomous machines. Automotive revenue was $155 million, down 7% year-on-year and down 5% sequentially. The automotive industry is seeing a significant impact from the pandemic, and we expect that to affect our revenue in the second quarter as well, likely declining about 40% from Q1. 
Despite the near-term challenges, our important work continues. We believe that every machine that moves someday will have autonomous capabilities. During the quarter, Xpeng introduced the P7, an all-electric sports sedan with innovative Level 3 automated driving features, powered by the NVIDIA DRIVE AGX Xavier AI compute platform. Our open, programmable, software-defined platform enables Xpeng to run its proprietary software while also delivering over-the-air updates for new driving features and capabilities. Production deliveries of the P7 with NVIDIA DRIVE begin next month. 

Our Ampere architecture will power our next-generation NVIDIA DRIVE platform called Orin, delivering more than 6x the performance of Xavier Solutions and 4x better power efficiency. With Ampere scalability, the DRIVE platform will extend from driverless robotaxis all the way down to in windshield driver assistant systems sipping just a few watts of power. Customers appreciate the top-to-bottom platform all based on a single architecture, letting them build one software-defined platform for every vehicle in their fleet. 
Lastly, in the area of robotics, we announced that BMW Group has selected the new NVIDIA as a robotics platforms to automate their factories, utilizing logistic robots built on advanced AI computing and visualization technologies. 
Turning to data center. Quarterly revenue was a record $1.14 billion, up 80% year-on-year and up 18% sequentially, crossing the $1 billion mark for the first time. Announced last week, the A100 is the first Ampere architecture GPU. Although just announced, A100 is in full production, contributed meaningful to Q1 revenue and demand is strong. Overall, data center demand was solid throughout the quarter. It was also broad-based across hyperscale and vertical industry customers as well as across workloads, including training, inference and high-performance computing. We continue to have solid visibility into Q2. 
The A100 offers the largest leap in performance to date over our 8 generations of GPUs, boosting performance by up to 20x over its predecessor. It is exceptionally versatile, serving as a universal accelerator for the most important high-performance workloads, including AI training and inference as well as data analytics, scientific computing and cloud graphics. 
Beyond its leap performance and versatility, the A100 introduces new elastic computing technologies that make it possible to bring rightsized computing power to every job. A multi-instance GPU capability allows each A100 to be partitioned into as many as 7 smaller GPU instances. Conversely, multiple A100 interconnected by our third-generation NVLink can operate as one giant GPU for ever larger training tasks. This makes the A100 ideal for both training and for inference. The A100 will be deployed by the world's leading cloud service providers and system builders, including Alibaba cloud, Amazon Web Services, Baidu Cloud, Dell Technologies, Google Cloud platform, HPE and Microsoft Azure, among others. It is also getting adopted by several supercomputing centers, including the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center and the Jülich Supercomputing Centre in Germany and Argonne National Laboratory. 
We launched and shipped the DGX A100, our third-generation DGX and the most advanced AI system in the world. The DGX A100 is configurable from 1 to 56 independent GPUs to deliver elastic software-defined data center infrastructure for the most demanding workloads from AI training and inference to data analytics. 
We announced two products for edge AI: the EGX A100 for larger commercial off-the-shelf servers; and the EGX Jetson Xavier NX for micro-edge servers. Supported by full AI optimized cloud, native and secure software, the EGX platform is built for AI computing at the edge. With the EGX, hospitals, retail stores, farms and factories can securely carry out real-time processing of the massive amounts of data streaming from trillions of edge sensors. NVIDIA EGX makes it possible to securely, deploy and manage and update fleets of servers remotely. EGX is also ideal for the massive computational challenge of 5G networks, which we are working on with our partners like Ericsson and Mavenir. 
Additionally, we announced CUDA 11 and other important software harnessing the A100's performance and universality to accelerate three of the most complex and fast-growing workloads: recommendation systems, conversational AI and data science. 

First, NVIDIA Merlin is a deep recommender application framework that enables developers to quickly build state-of-the-art recommendation systems, leveraging our pretrained models. With billions of users and trillions of items on the Internet, deep recommendators are the critical engine powering virtually every internet service. 
Second, NVIDIA Jarvis is a GPU-accelerated application framework that makes it easy for developers to create, deploy and run end-to-end real-time conversational AI applications that understand terminology unique to each company and its customers using both vision and speech. Demand for these applications are surging. Amid the shift to working from home, telemedicine and remote learning. 
And third, in the field of data science and data analytics, we announced that we are bringing end-to-end GPU acceleration to Apache Spark, an analytics engine for big data processing that uses more than 500,000 data scientists worldwide. Native GPU acceleration for the entire Spark pipeline, from extracting, transforming and loading the data to training to inference, delivers the performance and the scale needed to finally connect the potential of big data with the power of AI. Adobe has achieved a 7x performance improvement and a 90% cost savings in an initial test using GPU-accelerated data analytics with Spark. 
Our accelerated computing platform continues to gain momentum, underscored by the tremendous success of GTC Digital, our annual GPU technology conference, which shifted this spring to an online format. More than 55,000 online developers and AI research registered for the online event, which includes hundreds of hours of free content from AI practitioners and industry experts who leverage NVIDIA's platforms. 
Our ecosystem is now 1.8 million developers strong. Times like these truly test a computing platform's metal in the utility it brings to scientist racing for solutions. Researchers around the world are deploying our GPU computing platform in the fight against COVID-19. Scientists are combining AI simulation to detect changes in pneumonia cases, sequence, the virus and seek effective biomolecular compounds for a vaccine or treatment. 
The first breakthrough came from researchers at the University of Texas at Austin and National Institute of Health, who used the GPU-accelerated application to create the first 3D atomic scale map of virus using NVIDIA GPUs. This was followed by researchers at Oak Ridge National Laboratory who screened 8,000 compounds to identify 77 promising drug targets using the world's fastest supercomputer, Summit, which is powered by more than 27,000 NVIDIA GPUs. 
The V100 GPUs at Oak Ridge are in high demand as they can analyze 17 million compound protein combinations in a day. They'll help understand the virus spread pattern, the University of California, San Diego, researchers ported their microbiomic analysis software to GPUs in the San Diego supercomputing cluster of 500x analysis speed up from what some people are more susceptible to the virus. 
Okay. Moving to the rest of the P&L. Q1 GAAP gross margins was 65.1% and non-GAAP was 65.8%, up sequentially and year-on-year, primarily driven by GeForce GPU product mix and higher data center sales. Q1 GAAP operating expenses were $1.03 billion, and non-GAAP operating expenses were $821 million, up 10% and 9% year-on-year, respectively. Q1 GAAP EPS was $1.47, up 130% from a year earlier, and non-GAAP EPS was $1.80, up 105% from a year ago. Q1 cash flow from operations was $909 million. 
Before I turn to the outlook, let me make a few comments on our Mellanox acquisition. Beyond the strong strategic and cultural fit that Jensen has discussed, Mellanox has exceptionally strong financial profile. The company reported revenue of $429 million in its March quarter, accelerating to 40% year-on-year growth, with GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins in the mid- to high 60% range. We expect the acquisition to be immediately accretive to non-GAAP gross margins, non-GAAP earnings per share and free cash flow. We aim to retain the full Mellanox team and accelerate investments in our combined road map as we jointly innovate on our shared vision for the future of accelerated computing. 

With that, let me turn to the outlook of the second quarter of fiscal 2021, which includes a full quarter contribution from Mellanox. We have assumed in our outlook the potential ongoing impact from COVID-19. We expect our automotive platform sales to be down 40% on a sequential basis and Pro Viz to decline sequentially. In gaming, while we will likely see ongoing impact from the partial operations or closures of iCafes and retail stores, we expect that to be largely offset by a shift to e-tail channels. Overall, the precise magnitude of the impact is difficult to predict, given uncertainties around the reopening of the economy. Overall, we expect second quarter revenue to be $3.65 billion, plus or minus 2%. The contribution of Mellanox revenue is likely to be in the low teens percentage range of our total Q2 revenue. We are providing this breakout to help with comparability between Q1 and Q2. But going forward, it will become an integrated part of our data center market platform. 
GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 58.6% and 66%, respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points. The sequential decline in GAAP gross margins primarily reflects an increase in acquisition-related costs, most of which are nonrecurring. 
GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $1.52 billion, and $1.04 billion, respectively. The sequential change in GAAP operating expenses reflects an increase in stock-based compensation and acquisition-related costs. GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses for the full year are expected to be approximately $5.7 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. For the full year, stock-based compensation and acquisition-related costs also influence. 
GAAP and non-GAAP OI&E are both expected to be an increase of approximately $50 million and $45 million, respectively. GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates are both expected to be 9%, plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $225 million to $250 million. Further financial details are included in the CFO commentary and other information available on our IR website. 
New this quarter, we have also posted an investor presentation summarizing our results and key highlights. In closing, let me highlight upcoming events for the financial community. Next Thursday, May 28, we will webcast a presentation and Q&A with Jensen on our recent product announcement moderated by Evercore. We will also be at Cowen's TMT Conference on May 27; Morgan Stanley's Cloud Secular Winners Conference on June 1; BoFa's Technology Conference on June 2; Needham's Fourth Automotive Technology Conference on June 3 and Nasdaq Investor Conference on June 16. 
Operator, we will now open for questions. Can you please poll for questions, please.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. Aaron Rakers with Wells Fargo.
Aaron Rakers
Congratulations on a solid quarter. Colette, I'm curious of your commentary around visibility in the data center side, that that's comments over the last couple of quarters, how would you characterize your visibility today relative to maybe what it was last quarter? And how do we think about the visibility in the context of trends maybe into the back half of the calendar year.
Colette Kress
Thanks, Will, for the question. You are correct. We have indicated a couple of quarters ago that we were starting to see improved visibility after we came out of the digestion period in the prior overall fiscal year. As we move into Q2, we still have visibility and solid visibility into our Q2 results for overall data centers. So at this time, I'd say they are relatively about the same of what we had seen going into the Q1 period. And we think that is a true indication of their excitement about our platform and most particularly our excitement regarding A100, and that's launched and its additional products. 

Now regarding the second half of the year, as you know, we have seen broad-based growth in both the hyperscale and the vertical industries, both of them in terms of at record levels. In our Q1 results. And we see in terms of inferencing continuing to grow as well, as well as we're also expanding in terms of edge AI. Our strong demand of the A100 products, including the Delta Board, but also in terms of our DGXs, was just starting an initial ramp. However, we do guide only 1 quarter at a time. So it's still a little bit too early for us to give a true certainty in terms of the macro situation that's in front of us. But again, we feel very good about the demand for A100.
Operator
Your next question comes from Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research.
Stacy Rasgon
I first wanted to follow-up on your gaming commentary. You sort of mentioned a couple of offsets. COVID potentially still a headwind, e-tail or tailwind and maybe offsetting each other. Were you trying to suggest that those did offset completely and gaming was kind of flattish into Q2? Because I know it has a typical seasonal pattern switches typically up. I guess what were you trying to say with those kind of factors? And what are the kinds of things we should be thinking about when it comes to seasonality, Colette, into Q2 around that business segment?
Colette Kress
So let me start, and I'll see if Jensen also wants to add on to it. I think you're talking about our sequential between Q1 and Q2. Some of the...
Stacy Rasgon
Yes. That's right.
Colette Kress
Right. Some of the pieces that we had seen related to COVID-19 in Q1 may carry over into Q2. COVID-19, in fact, had an impact in terms of our retail channels as well as our iCafes. However, as we discussed, efficiently, moved to overall e-tail. We have normally been seasonally down in desktop between Q1 and Q2, and that will likely happen. But we do see the strength in terms of laptops and overall consoles as we move for Q1 to Q2. So in summary, we do expect grow sequentially between Q1 and Q2 for our overall gaming business. And I'll turn it over to Jensen to see if he has additional commentary.
Jensen Huang
No, that was great. That was fantastic.
Stacy Rasgon
Yes. I guess just to follow up on that, though, if it's growing. I mean like in prior years, we've seen it grow like very strong double digits. Obviously, the mix of the business was different back then. But do you think that the kind of -- I mean are we thinking kind of it's up somewhat? You don't -- is there any chance that it could be up like on -- for what we've seen in terms of like typical levels in the past? Like can you give us any sense of magnitude, that would be really helpful?
Colette Kress
Yes. I think when we think about that sequential growth, we'll probably be in the low -- moving up to probably the mid-single digits in terms of -- that's what our guidance right now, and we'll just have to see how the quarter goes.
Stacy Rasgon
Yes. That's very helpful.
Jensen Huang
Stacy, the thing that I would add is this. I would say, I think the guidance is exactly what Colette mentioned. But if you look at the big picture, there's a few dynamics that are working really well in our favor. First, of course, is that RTX and ray tracing is just the home run. Minecraft was phenomenal. We have 33 games in the pipe that has already been announced or shipping. Just about every game developers signed on to RTX and ray tracing, and I think it's a foregone conclusion that this is the next generation. This is the way computer graphics is going to be in the future. And so I think RTX is a home run. 
The second, the notebooks that we create is just doing great. We got 100 notebooks in gaming. We have 75 notebooks designed for either mobile workstations or what we call NVIDIA studio for designers and creators. And the timing was just perfect. With everybody needing to stay at home, the ability to have a mobile gaming platform and a mobile workstation, it was just perfect timing. And then, of course, you guys know quite well that our Nintendo Switch is doing fantastic. There are the Top 3 games in the world. The top games in the world today are Fortnite, Minecraft and Animal Crossing. All 3 games are NVIDIA platforms. And so I think we have all the dynamics working in our favor. And then we just got to see how it turns out.

Operator
Your next question comes from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley.
Joseph Moore
I wanted to ask about the rollout of Ampere how quickly does that roll in the various segments between hyperscale as well as on the DGX side as well as on the HPC side. And is it a smooth transition? Is there -- I remember when you launched Volta, there was a little bit of a transitional pause. Just can you tell us how you see that ramping up with the different customer segments?
Jensen Huang
Yes. Thanks a lot, Joe. So first of all, taking a step back. Accelerated computing is now common sense in data centers. It wasn't the case when we first launched Volta. If you went back to Volta, Volta was the first generation that the deep learning training in a really serious way, and it was really focused on training. It was focused on training and high-performance computing. We didn't come until later with the inference version called T4. 
But over the course of the last 5 