NVIDIA Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA)  Q2 2022 Results Conference Call  August 18, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Jensen Huang – President & Chief Executive Officer
Colette Kress – Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Simona Jankowski – Vice President & Head of Investor Relations
Conference Call Participants
Vivek Arya – Bank of America
Stacy Rasgon – Bernstein
Matt Ramsay – Cowen
C.J. Muse – Evercore
Harlan Sur – JP Morgan
Aaron Rakers – Wells Fargo
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Chris Casper – Raymond James
Silgan Stein – Analyst
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Mel, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to NVIDIA's Second Quarter Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Simona Jankowski, you may begin your conference.
Simona Jankowski
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to NVIDIA's Conference Call for the Second Quarter of Fiscal 2022. With me today from NVIDIA are Jensen Huang, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Colette Kress, Executive Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer. 
I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations website. The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the First Quarter of Fiscal 2022. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent. 
During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially. 
For our discussion, the factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q, and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
All our statements are made as of today August 18, 2021, based on information currently available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements. 
During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our website. With that, let me turn the call over to Colette.
Colette Kress
Thanks, Simona. Q2 was another strong quarter with revenue of $6.5 billion and year-on-year growth of 68%. We set records for total revenue, as well as for gaming, data center, and professional visualization. Starting with gaming, revenue was 3.1 billion, was up 11% sequentially, and up 85% from a year earlier. 
Demand remained exceptionally strong, outpacing supply. We are now four quarters into the Ampere architecture product cycle for gaming, and it continues to be our best effort. 
At COMPUTEX in June, we announced two powerful new GPUs for gamers and creators, the GeForce, RTX 3080 Ti, and RTX 3070 Ti, delivering 50% faster performance than their prior-generation with acclaimed features, such as real-time retracing, NVIDIA DLSS, AI, rendering, Reflex, and broadcast. 
Laptop demand was also very strong. OEMs adopted Ampere architecture GPU s in a record number of designs. From the top of the line gaming laptops to those -- to mainstream price points as low as $799 that brings the power of GeForce GPUs to gamers, students, and creators on the go. 
Ampere architecture-powered laptops feature our third generation Max-Q power optimization technology that enables ultrathin designs, such as the new Alienware X15, the world's most powerful sub-16-millimeter gaming laptop. 
NVIDIA RTX technology has reset computer graphics and spurred our biggest ever refresh cycle. Ampere's been our fastest ramping gaming GPU architecture on Steam. And the combination of Turing and Ampere RTX GPUs has only upgraded about 20% of our installed base. 80% have yet to upgrade to RTX. 
And the audience for global eSports will soon approach 0.5 billion people, while the number of those who live stream games is expected to reach over 700 million. The number of PC gamers on Steam is up almost 20% over the past year. 
More than 60 RTX games now support NVIDIA's RTX ray tracing or DLSS, including today's biggest game franchises, such as Minecraft, Fortnite, and Cyberpunk. New RTX games this quarter includes Red Dead Redemption 2, one of the top-rated games of all time, popular titles like Rainbow Six Siege and rushed, and Minecraft RTX in China with over 400 million players. To competitive gamers, NVIDIA Reflex, which includes latency, is now supported by 20 games. Let me say a few words on crypto currency mining. 
In an effort to address the needs of miners and direct GeForce to gamers, we increased the supply of Crypto currency Mining Processors, or CMP, and introduced low hash rate GeForce GPUs with limited Ethereum mining capability. Over 80% of our Ampere architecture base GeForce shipments in the quarter were low hash rate GPUs. 
The combination of crypto to gaming revenue is difficult to quantify. CMP revenue, which is recognized in OEM, was 266 million, lower than our original 400 million estimates on reduced mining profitability and we expect a minimal contribution from CMP going forward. 
GeForce NOW reached a new milestone this quarter, surpassing 1,000 PC games, more than any other cloud gaming service. The premium tier is available for a subscription of $10 per month, giving gamers access to RTX class performance, even on an underpowered PC, Mac, Chromebook, iOS, or Android device. 
Moving to pro visualization. Q2 revenue was a record 519 million, up 40% sequentially, and up 156% year-on-year. Strong sequential revenue growth was led by desktop workstations, driven by demand to outfit, design offices at home as remote work becomes the norm across industries. 
This is also the first big quarter of the Ampere architecture ramp for pro visualization. King verticals driving Q2 demand include automotive, public sector, and healthcare. At SIGGRAPH last week, we announced an expansion of NVIDIA Omniverse, our simulation and collaboration platform that provides the foundation of the Metaverse. 
Through new integrations with Blender, the world's leading open-source 3D animation tool, and Adobe, we're opening the Omniverse platform to millions of additional users. We are also collaborating with Apple and Pixar to bring advanced physics capabilities to Pixar's Universal Scene Description framework, embracing open standards to provide 3D workflows to billions of devices. 
Omniverse enterprise software is in the early access stage and will be generally available later this year on a subscription basis from NVIDIA's partners, including Dell, HP, Lenovo, and many others. Over 500 Companies are evaluating Omniverse Enterprise, including BMW, Volvo, and Lockheed Martin. 
And more than 50,000 individual creators have downloaded Omniverse since it entered open beta in December. Moving to automotive. Our Q2 revenue was 152 million, down 1% sequentially, and up 3% year-on-year Sequential revenue declines in infotainment were largely offset by growth in self-driving. 
Looking further out, we have substantial design winds set to ramp that we expect will drive a major inflection in revenue in the coming years. This quarter, we announced several additional wins. 
Self-driving startup AutoX unveiled its latest autonomous driving platform for RoboTaxis powered by NVIDIA DRIVE. The performance and safety capabilities of the software-defined NVIDIA DRIVE platform have enabled AutoX to become one of the first companies in the world to provide full self-driving mobility services without the need for a safety driver. 
In autonomous trucking, DRIVE's ecosystem partner, plus, signed a deal with Amazon to provide at least 1,000 self-driving systems to Amazon's fleet of delivery vehicles. These systems are powered by NVIDIA DRIVE for high-performance, energy-efficient, and centralized AI compute. 
An autonomous trucking startup embarked is building on NVIDIA DRIVE. The system is being developed for trucks for four major OEMs, Freightliner, Navistar International, PACCAR, and Volvo, representing the vast majority of class 8 or largest size trucks in the U.S. 
The NVIDIA DRIVE platform is being rapidly adopted across the transportation industry from passenger-owned vehicles to robotaxi to trucking and delivery vehicles. We believe everything that moves will be autonomous someday. 
Moving to Data Center. Revenue of 2.4 billion grew 16% sequentially, and 35% from the year-ago quarter. The year-ago quarter, which was our first quarter to include Mellanox. Growth was driven by both hyperscale customers and vertical industries, each of which has record revenues. 
Our flagship A100 continuing to ramp across hyper-scale and cloud computing customers, with Microsoft Azure announcing general availability in June, following AWS and Google Cloud Platforms' general availability in prior quarters. 
Vertical industry demand was strong, with sequential growth led by financial services, supercomputing, and telecom customers. We also had exceptional growth in Inference, which reached a record more than doubling year-on-year. 
Revenue from Inference focussed processors includes the new A30 GPU, which provides four times the Inference performance of the T4. Customers are also turning to NVIDIA GPUs to take AI to production and shifting from CPUs to GPUs, driven by the stringent performance, latency, and cost requirements of deploying and scaling deep learning AI workloads, and NVIDIA Networking products posted solid results. 
We see momentum across regions driven by our technology of leadership with upgrades to high-speed products, such as ConnectX-6, as well as new customer wins across cloud service providers, enterprise, and high-performance computing. We extended our leadership in supercomputing. 
The latest top 500 niche shows that NVIDIA technologies power 342 of the world's top 500 supercomputers, including 70% of all new systems and eight of the top 10, to help companies harness the new industrial high-performance computing revolution. 
We deliver a turnkey AI Data Center solution with the NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD, the same technology that powers our new Cambridge-1 supercomputer in the UK and a number of others in the top 500. We expanded our AI software and subscription offerings, making it easier for enterprises to adopt AIs from the initial development stage through to deployment and operations. 
We announced NVIDIA Base Command, our software-as-a-service offering for operating and managing large-scale, multi-user, and multi-team AI development workloads on DGX SuperPOD. 
Base Command is the operating and management system software for distributed training customers. We also announced the general availability of NVIDIA Fleet Command, our managed edge AI software-as-a-service offering. 
Fleet Command helps Companies solve the problem of securely deploying and managing AI applications across thousands of remote locations, combining the efficiency and simplicity of central management with the cost performance and data sovereignty benefits of real-time processing at the edge. 
Early adopters of Fleet Command include some of the world's leading retail, manufacturing, and logistics companies and the specialty software Companies that work with them. 
The new NVIDIA Base Command and Fleet Command software and subscription offerings followed last quarter's announcements of the NVIDIA AI Enterprise software suite, which is early access with general availability expected soon. 
Our enterprise software strategy is supported by the NVIDIA certified system program with the server OEMs, which are bringing to market over 55 systems ready to run on NVIDIA's AI software out of the box to help enterprises simplify and accelerate their AI deployment. 
The NVIDIA ecosystem keeps getting stronger. NVIDIA Inception, our acceleration platform for AI startups, just surpassed 8,500 members with cumulative funding of over 60 billion and numbers in 90 countries. Inception is one of the largest AI startup ecosystems in the world. 
CUDA now has been downloaded 27 million times since it launched 15-years ago, with 7 million in the last year alone. TensorRT for inference has been downloaded nearly 2.5 million times across more than 27,000 Companies. And the total number of developers in the NVIDIA ecosystem now exceeds 2.6 million, up 4 times in the past 4 years. 
Let me give you a quick update on Arm. In nearly one year since we initially agreed to combine with Arm, we have gotten to know the Company, its business, and its people much better. 
We believe more than ever in the power of our combination, and the benefits it would deliver for Arm, for the UK, and its customers across the world in the era of AI. Arm has great potential. We love their business model and commit to keeping its open licensing approach. 
And with NVIDIA's scale and capabilities, Arm will make more IP, and sooner, for their mobile and embedded customers while expanding into Data Center, IOT, and other new markets. NVIDIA accelerates computing, which starts with the CPU. 
Whatever new markets are open with the CPU and our accelerated computing opportunities. We've announced accelerated platforms for Amazon Graviton, Ampere Computing, MediaTek, and more about expanding cloud computing, AI, cloud gaming, Supercomputing, Edge AI, to Chrome PCs. 
We plan to invest in the U.K. and we have with the Cambridge-1 supercomputer. And through ARM making U.K. a global center in science, technology, and AI. We are working through the regulatory process, although some Arm licensees have expressed concerns and objected to the transaction, and discussions with regulators are taking longer than initially thought.
We are confident in the deal and that regulators should recognize the benefits of the acquisition to Arm, its licensees, and the industry. Moving to the rest of the P&L, the GAAP gross margin of 64.8% for the second quarter was up 600 basis points from the year earlier, reflecting the absence of certain Mellanox acquisition-related costs. 
GAAP gross margins were up 70 basis points sequentially, non-GAAP gross margins were 66.7% up 70 basis points from a year earlier and up 50 basis points sequentially, reflecting higher ASPs within the desktop, G4s, GPUs, our continued growth in high end and pure architecture products, partially offset by a mix shift within Data Center. 
Q2 GAAP EPS was $0.94 up 276% from a year earlier. Non-GAAP EPS was $1.04, up 89% from the year-earlier, adjusting for the 4 to 1 stock split effective this quarter. Q2 cash flow from operations was a record 2.7 billion. Let me turn to the outlook for the Third Quarter of Fiscal 2022. 
We expect another strong quarter with sequential growth driven largely by accelerating demand in Data Center. In addition, we expect sequential growth in each of our three other market platforms. Gaming demand is continuing to exceed supply as we expect channel inventories to remain below target levels as we exit Q3. 
The contribution of CMP to our revenue outlook is amongst. Revenue is expected to be 6.8 billion plus or minus 2%, GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 65.2% and 67% respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points. 
GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately 1.96 billion and 1.37 billion, respectively. GAAP and non-GAAP other income and expenses are both expected to be an expense of approximately 60 million, excluding gains and losses on equity securities. 
GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates are supposed to be expected 11%, plus or minus 1% excluding discrete items. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately 200 million to 225 million. 
Further financial details are included in the CFO commentary and other information available on our IR website. In closing, let me highlight upcoming events for the financial community. We will be attending the following virtual events. 
The BMO Technology Summit on August 24th, the New Street Big Ideas in Semiconductors Conference on September 9th, the Citi Global Tech Conference on September 13, the Piper Sandler Global Technology Conference on September 14th, and the Evercore ISI Auto Check and AI Forum on September 21st. 
Our earnings call to discuss the third-quarter results are scheduled for Wednesday, November 17th. We will now open the call for questions. Operator, would you please pull for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions]. Your first question comes from the line of Vivek Arya of Bank of America. Your line is now open. You may ask your question.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question. I actually had a near and longer-term question on the data center. I think near-term you mentioned the possibility of accelerating data center growth from the 35% rate. 
I was hoping if you could give us some more color around that confidence and visibility. And then longer-term, Jensen, we've seen a lot of announcements from NVIDIA about your Enterprise software opportunity. I honestly don't know how to model that. It sounds very promising, but how should we model it? What problem are you trying to solve? 
Is it cannibalizing demand you might have otherwise seen from your public Cloud customers, or is this incremental to growth? So just any guidance or any just insights into how to think about NVIDIA's Enterprise software opportunity longer-term? Thank you.
Jensen Huang
Yes, thanks for the question. We are seeing accelerated -- as we've already reported that we have record revenues in both hyperscale cloud and industrial enterprise this last quarter. And we're seeing accelerated growth. 
The exploration in hyperscale and cloud comes from the transitioning of the cloud services providers in taking their AI applications, which are now heavily deep learning-driven into production. There were some things that we've spoken about in the past that we'll make Vinny the ideal partner to scale up with. 
And there are several elements of our platform. Number one, Ampere GPU, which is now a universal GPU for AI, for training, but incredibly good for [Indiscernible] it’s terrific and its throughput, it's terrific, and it's a fast response client as well. 
And therefore, the cost of deployment, the cost of operating the AI applications is the lowest. The second is the introduction of TensorRT, which is our optimizing compiler that makes it possible for us to compile and optimize any AI application to our GPUs. 
And whether its computer vision or natural language understanding conversational AI, recommender systems, the type of applications that are deploying AIs is really quite vast. 
And then lastly, this software Inference server that we offer is called Triton, which supports every one of our GPUs. It supports CPU s as well as GPUs still. So every internet service provider could operate their entire data center using Triton. 
These several things are really accelerating our growth. So the first element is the deployment and transition of deep learning AI applications into large-scale deployment. 
In the Enterprise, the application that is driving AI, as you know, every enterprise wants to get a race towards being a tech company and take advantage of connected clouds and connected devices and artificial intelligence to achieve it. 
And they have an opportunity to deploy AI services out of the edge. And in order to do so, there are several things that have to happen. First, we have to create a computing platform that allows them to do training in the IT environment that they understand, which is virtualized, which is largely managed by VMware. 
And our collaboration with VMware, creating a new type of system that could be integrated into Enterprise has been quite a significant effort, and it's in volume production today. 
The second is a server that allows the enterprise customers to deploy their AI models out to the Edge. And the AI engine, the software suite that we've been developing over the last 10 years, now has been integrated into this environment and allows the enterprises to basically run AI out of the vast. 
There are three elements of our stuff of product there. For instance, NVIDIA AI Enterprise. And that basically puts all of the state-of-the-art AI solvers and engines and libraries that we've industrialized and perfected over the years, have made available to Enterprise license. 
The second is an operating system platform called Base Command that allows for distributed Gala software development for training and developing models, and then the third is Fleet Command, which is an operating system software product that lets you operate and deploy and manage the AI models out to the Edge. 
These three software products, in combination with the server called NVIDIA Certified, taken out through our network of partners is our strategy to accelerate the adoption of AI by the Enterprise customers. So we're really enthusiastic about entering into the software business model. 
This is an opportunity that could represent, of course, tens of millions of servers, we could link all of them with the GPU accelerated, and we believe that Enterprises will be deploying and taking advantage of AI to revolutionize the industry. And using a credit traditional enterprise software licensing business model. This could represent billions of dollars of profit inputs.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon of Bernstein. Your line is now open. You may ask your question.
Stacy Rasgon
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I wanted to go back, Colette, the sequential guidance, you gave a little bit of colour by segments. I've been looking at your gaming revenues. It's like three quarters in a row, you've been up, call it ballpark, 10% or 11%. And my understanding is that was a function of your ability to bring on supply. 
So I guess what does the supply issue look like as you're going from Q2 into Q3? And do you think you can still maintain that kind of sequential growth or does it dial down because I also need to -- I also would play that against your other commentary suggesting that the sequential growth -- and I assume on a dollar basis would be driven primarily by Data Center. 
So how do I think about the interplay within those comments of sequential growth of gaming, especially given the trajectories out of the last several quarters?
Colette Kress
Yeah. Let me start and I'll let Jensen add a bit, Stacy, to your question. I guess we're providing the guidance for Q3 of 6.8 billion in revenue. Now excluding CMP, we expect our revenue to grow over 500 million sequentially. A lion's share of that sequential revenue increase will be coming from Data Center. 
We do expect gaming to be up slightly on a sequential basis but remember we are still supply constrained. Automotive and ProBiz are also expected to be up slightly quarter-over-quarter. And from the CMP perspective, we'll probably just have minimal amounts in Q3. 
So our Q3 results don't have seasonality with them for gaming and are really about the supply that we believe we can have for Q3. I'll see if Jensen wants to add any more colours.
Jensen Huang
Yes, thanks for your questions. As you know RTX is a fundamental recap of computer graphics. This is a technology called ray tracing that has been the holy grail of computer graphics for quite a long time for 35 years, and our NVIDIA research for 10 years, we finally made it possible to do real-time ray tracing with RTX. 
RTX's demand is quite incredible, and as you know, we have a large [Indiscernible] that uses an architecture called GTX based on programmable shelters that we invented some 20 years ago. And now, we've reset the entire installed base, and Ampere is off to just the incredible starting the best-selling GPU architecture in the history of our Company. 
And yet, we've only upgraded some 20% -- less than 20% of our total installed base. There's another 80% of the world's PC gaming market that we have yet to upgrade to RTX. Meanwhile, the number of PC gamers in the world grew substantially. Steam grew 20% this last year. And so I think the -- we're right at the beginning of our RTX transition. 
Meanwhile, computer graphics has expanded into so many different new markets. RTX, we've always believed would re-invent the way that people did design. And we're seeing that happening right now as we speak as Workstations is growing faster than ever and has achieved record revenues. 
And at the same time, because of all of our work with cloud gaming, we now see public clouds putting in cloud graphics, whether its workstations or PC s or private gaming consoles up in the Cloud. So we're seeing strong demand in PCs, in laptops, in workstations, in mobile workstations, in the cloud. And so RTX is really doing great. 
Our challenge there is that demand is so much greater than supply. And again, as Colette said, [Indiscernible].
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay of Cowen. Your line is now open.
Matt Ramsay
Yes. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. Before my questions, Jensen, I just wanted to say congrats on the Noyce Award, that's a big honor. For my question, I wanted to follow on Stacy's question about supply. 
And Colette, maybe you could give us a little bit of commentary around supply constraints in gaming in the different tiers or price tiers of your gaming cards. I'm just trying to get a better understanding of how you guys are managing supply across the different price tiers. 
And I guess it translates into a question of, are the gaming ASPs that we're seeing in the October quarter guidance, are those what you would call sustainable going forward, or do you feel like that mix may change as supply comes online? Thank you.
Colette Kress
I'll start here. Thanks for the question on our overall mix as we go forward. First, our supply constraint in our gaming business is largely attributed to our desktop and notebook. That can mean a lot of different things from our components that are necessary to build so many of our products. 
But our mix is really important. Our mix as we are also seeing many of our gamers very interested in our higher-end, higher performance products. We will continue to see that as a driver about overall lifts both our revenue and can lift our overall gross margins. 
So there are quite a few different pieces into our supply that we have to think about, but we are going to try and make the best solutions for our gamers at this time.
Operator
Thank you. For the next question, we have the line from C.J. Muse from Evercore. Your line is now open.
C.J. Muse
Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. I guess a follow-up question on the supply constraints. When do you think that they'll ease? And how should we think about gaming into the January quarter vis-a-vis typical seasonality, given -- I would assume you would continue to be supply constrained. Thank you.
Jensen Huang
Colette, I can take it or you can. Either one of us.
Colette Kress
Go ahead Jensen and I'll follow it up if there are some other things,
Jensen Huang
Okay. We're supply constraint in graphics and we're supplying constraining graphics while we're delivering record revenues in graphics. Cloud gaming is growing, cloud graphics is growing. RTX made it possible for us to address the design in the creative workstations. Historically the rendering of ray tracing and photorealistic images have largely been done on CPUs. 
And for the very first time, and you could actually accelerate it with NVIDIA GPUs and with RTX GPUs. And so the workstation market is really doing great. The backdrop of that of course is that people are building offices in their homes. 
And for many of the designers and creators of our worlds and 20 million of them, they have to create -- they have to build a workstation or an office at home as well as build one at work [Indiscernible] And meanwhile, of course, RTX has reached that -- all of our consumer graphics with the 200 million installed base of PC gamers, and it's time to upgrade. 
And so there's a whole bunch of reasons when choosing referenced revenues while we're on supply constraints. We have enough supply to meet our second-half Company growth plans. And next year, we expect to be able to achieve our Company's growth plans for next year. 
Meanwhile, we're having and are securing pretty significant long-term supply commitments as we expand into all these different marketing initiatives that we've set ourselves up for. And so I would expect that we will see a supply-constrained environment for the vast majority of next year is my guess at the moment. 
But a lot of that has to do with the fact that our demand is just too great. RTX is really a once-in-a-generation reset of the computer -- modern computer graphics. Nothing like this has happened [Indiscernible] computer graphics. And so the invention is really [Indiscernible] and you could see its impact.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur of JP Morgan. Your line is now open.
Harlan Sur
Good afternoon and congratulations on the strong results outlook and execution. The Mellanox networking franchise -- this has been a really strong and synergistic addition to the video compute portfolio. 
I think kind of near to midterm the team is benefiting from the transition to 200 and 400-gig networking connectivity and Cloud and Hyperscale. And then I think in addition to that, you guys are getting some good traction with the Bluefield smart tech products. 
Can you just give us a sense of how the business is trending year-over-year, and do you expect continued quarter-over-quarter networking momentum into the second half of this year, especially as the cloud and hyperscalers are going through a server and Capex spending cycle?
Jensen Huang
Yeah, I really appreciate that question. Now, the heaviest solid growth quarter, and the Mellanox networking business have really grown incredibly. There are three dynamics happening all at the same time. The first is the transition that you're talking about. You know that the world's data center [Indiscernible] centers are users for computing costs just aggregated, which basically