ON Semiconductor Corp. (NASDAQ:ON) Q2 2020 Earnings Call August 10, 2020  9:00 AM ET
Executives
Parag Agarwal - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Bernard Gutmann - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Keith D. Jackson - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Analysts
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Christopher Brett Danely - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Chris Caso - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Rajvindra S. Gill - Needham & Co. LLC
Vijay Raghavan Rakesh - Mizuho Securities USA LLC
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP
Craig A. Ellis - B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Matthew D. Ramsay - Cowen & Co. LLC
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Securities LLC
John W. Pitzer - Credit Suisse Securities (NYSE:USA) LLC
David O'Connor - Exane BNP Paribas
Tristan Gerra - Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Kevin Edward Cassidy - Rosenblatt Securities
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Nikolay Todorov - Longbow Research LLC
Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Inc.
Shawn M. Harrison - Loop Capital Markets
Craig M. Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the ON Semiconductor Second Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker for today, Mr. Parag Agarwal. Sir, please go ahead.
Parag Agarwal - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Thank you, Jay. Good morning and thank you for joining ON Semiconductor Corporation's second quarter 2020 quarterly results conference call. I am joined today by Keith Jackson, our President and CEO; and Bernard Gutmann, our CFO. This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A replay of this webcast along with our 2020 second quarter earnings release will be available on our website approximately one hour following this conference call, and the recorded webcast will be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call.
The script for today's call and additional information related to our end markets, business segments, geographies, channels, share count and 2020 and 2021 fiscal calendars are also posted on our website. Our earnings release and this presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measures under GAAP are included in our earnings release which is posted separately on our website in the Investor Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we'll make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. The words believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intend, may, expect, will, plan, should or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from projections. Important factors which can affect our business, including factors that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are described in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other filings with Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional factors are described in our earnings release for the second quarter of 2020. Our estimates or other financial – or other forward-looking statements may change, and the company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other factors except as required by law.
We plan to host our Analyst Day on March 5, 2021. At this time, our intent is to hold the event virtually. However, if conditions improve and risks related to COVID-19 pandemic subside substantially, we will hold the event in person in Phoenix, Arizona. We will provide additional information on the event in due course. During the third quarter, we plan to attend four virtual conferences. This includes Keybank Capital Markets Future of Technology Series on August 11; Jefferies Virtual Semiconductor IT, Hardware and Communications Infrastructure Summit on September 2; Citi Global Technology Conference on September 10; and Deutsche Bank Technology Conference on September 15.

Now let me turn it over to Bernard Gutmann who will provide an overview of our second quarter 2020 results. Bernard?
Bernard Gutmann - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Thank you, Parag, and thank you everyone for joining us today. During the second quarter, we saw a moderate improvement in business conditions as macroeconomic activity picked up across the world. We're seeing improvement in order activity across most end markets and geographies as the global community adjusts to changed business and social conditions brought about by the pandemic.
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a significant headwind to our results. However, through strong execution and unwavering commitment from our employees, customers and supply chain partners, we believe that we are successful in navigating the current environment. Despite near-term challenges, long-term drivers of our business remain intact. We're seeing strong momentum in our key end markets driven by accelerating design wins for our power, analog and sensor products.
At this time, improving our gross margin is the primary strategic priority for the company. As evidenced from our most recent press releases, we have accelerated our plans to optimize our manufacturing network. In addition, we're making strong progress in the ramp of our 300-millimeter manufacturing processes at East Fishkill fab. Keith will later provide additional details regarding our progress on the manufacturing front in his remarks.
Now let me provide you with details on our second quarter 2020 results. Total revenue for the second quarter of 2020 was $1.213 billion, a decrease of 10% as compared to revenues of $1.348 billion in the second quarter of 2019. The year-over-year decline in revenue was driven primarily by a slowdown in global macroeconomic activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
GAAP net loss for the quarter was $0.00 per diluted share as compared to a net income of $0.24 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2019. Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of 2020 was $0.12 per diluted share as compared to $0.42 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2019.
GAAP gross margin for the second quarter of 2020 was 30.8% as compared to 37% in the second quarter of 2019. Non-GAAP gross margin for the second quarter of 2020 was 30.8% as compared to 37.1% in the second quarter of 2019. The year-over-year decline in gross margin was driven primarily by lower revenue as discussed earlier and COVID-related costs. Second quarter 2020 gross margin included approximately $24 million of COVID-19-related costs. These costs include approximately $13 million related to the underutilization of our factory network in the first half of the second quarter. At this time, we do not expect to incur this underutilization charge in the third quarter of 2020 and beyond. And consequently, we expect to see a substantial increase in our gross margin for the third quarter. Other COVID 19-related costs in the second quarter included higher logistics costs and costs related to the implementation of enhanced health and safety protocols for our employees.
Our GAAP operating margin for the second quarter of 2020 was 3.6% as compared to 11.7% in the second quarter of 2019. Our non-GAAP operating margin for the second quarter of 2020 was 7.4% as compared to 15.7% in the second quarter of 2019. The year-over-year decline in operating margin was driven largely by lower revenue and lower gross margin due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter were $331 million as compared to $341 million in the second quarter of 2019. Second quarter GAAP operating expenses included approximately $11.8 million associated with our previously announced restructuring programs. Non-GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter were $284.6 million as compared to $288.2 million in the second quarter of 2019. The year-over-year decrease in non-GAAP operating expenses was driven primarily by strong execution on the cost front and by restructuring and cost-saving measures taken along the way by the company.

Second quarter free cash flow was $81.2 million and operating cash flow was $154.5 million. Capital expenditures during the second quarter were $73.3 million which equates to a capital intensity of 6%. Given the current macroeconomic environment, we're directing most of the capital expenditures towards enabling our 300-millimeter capabilities at the East Fishkill fab. We expect total capital expenditures for 2020 to be approximately $400 million. We exited the second quarter of 2020 with cash and cash equivalents of $2.06 billion as compared to $1.982 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2020. At this time, with cash balances of approximately $2 billion, we're very comfortable with our liquidity position.
At the end of the second quarter, days of inventory on hand were 140 days, up by nine days as compared to 131 days in the first quarter of 2020. The increase in days of inventory was driven primarily by our expectations of recovery in demand in the second half of the current year. In addition, we want to ensure that we have significant inventory on hand to support our customers in case of any supply disruption. In the second quarter, distribution inventory decreased marginally in terms of weeks of inventory.
Now let me provide you with an update on performance of our business units starting with the Power Solutions Group or PSG. Revenue for PSG in the second quarter was $618 million, revenue for Advanced Solutions Group for the second quarter was $427 million and revenue for our Intelligent Sensing Group was $168 million.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Keith Jackson for additional comments on the business environment. Keith?
Keith D. Jackson - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Thanks, Bernard. I will start with structural changes we are making to drive margin expansion and then I will provide an update on current business environment. To drive gross margin expansion, we have accelerated the pace of our manufacturing footprint optimization. We announced a plan to explore potential sale of our 6-inch fab in Niigata, Japan. Production from the Niigata, Japan fab is expected to be transitioned to other fabs in our network. This announcement comes on the heels of our announcement in February regarding our plan to transition production from our 6-inch automotive-centric fab in Belgium. With manufacturing optimization plans we've announced thus far, we expect to see significant improvement in our manufacturing cost structure and gross margin. Our 300-millimeter manufacturing capability in the East Fishkill fab has afforded us significant flexibility which has enabled us to optimize our network.
During the second quarter, we started our first 300-millimeter wafer production at the East Fishkill fab. We are currently sampling our 300-millimeter products to customers, and we expect to recognize our first 300-millimeter revenue in the third quarter. As we've noted in our earlier calls, we are very pleased with our accelerated progress in ramping our 300-millimeter manufacturing processes. The yields have been spectacular and we expect to see a meaningful positive impact on our gross margins as our 300-millimeter manufacturing ramps up in the coming years.
We've made substantial progress in key initiatives for driving gross margin expansion. We have launched new products and built a robust design win pipeline in automotive, industrial and cloud power end markets to drive richer mix. We continue to optimize our portfolio to ensure healthy margins for the company. We've accelerated the optimization of our manufacturing network. In addition, we will continue to work on expanding our gross margin through operational improvements within our network. As our revenue recovers driven by global macroeconomic recovery and the ramp-up of design wins, we expect to see strong operating leverage and robust gross margin expansion.

Let me now comment on the current business environment. We are beginning to see moderate recovery in the business environment. The improvement is broad-based with improving order activity across most end markets. Unlike in the second quarter, we have not seen any meaningful pushout or cancellation of orders. Based on current outlook, we expect to see improving business trends through the rest of the year. Improvement in our business is driven not only by improving global macroeconomic environment but also by our accelerating design wins in automotive, industrial and cloud power end markets. Our customers are restarting their factories and are engaging with our teams on ongoing projects. Our factories are resuming normal operation, and at this time we don't expect to see any meaningful supply constraints in the current quarter and beyond.
From a geographic perspective, we're seeing recovery in demand from Americas and Europe as economic activity has improved in these regions, and we're very encouraged by improving PMI numbers from both Europe and the US. We are beginning to see signs of recovery in automotive demand from Europe and the US while demand from China and Asia remains healthy.
Despite the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to make progress towards our strategic and financial goals. Key secular mega-trends and long-term drivers of our business remain intact. We're seeing accelerating momentum in key strategic initiatives for electric vehicles, robotics, factory and warehouse automation, cloud power and ADAS. Customers are increasingly relying on us to provide enabling technologies in power, analog and sensors, and they value the differentiation in technology and quality our products offer.
Now I'll provide details of the progress in our various end markets for the second quarter of 2020. Revenue for the automotive market in the second quarter was $327 million and represented 27% of our revenue in the second quarter. Second quarter automotive revenue declined 26% year-over-year. Year-over-year decline in automotive market was driven primarily by the closure of automotive production factories in various parts of the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic caused a temporary slowdown in our automotive revenue, key secular drivers powering our business have remained intact. Our content in the fastest growing automotive applications continues to grow at a healthy pace. Based on our design win pipeline, indications from customers and revenue trends, we believe that we are gaining significant share in the most attractive segments of the automotive semiconductor market.
We're beginning to see recovery in the automotive market in the US and Europe. Conversations with customers indicate that we should see ongoing recovery in the third and in the fourth quarter of the current year. We are seeing strong momentum for our silicon carbide and silicon products for electric vehicles. We recently won a very significant design with one of the leading global automotive OEMs for our silicon carbide power module for traction inverters for electric vehicles. We expect to start seeing revenue from this win a year from now. Based on our current engagement with various automotive OEMs, we expect to win multiple designs in the near to mid-term.
With a broad portfolio of silicon and silicon carbide products and industry-leading module capabilities, we believe that we are uniquely positioned to be a strong leader in power semiconductor market for electric vehicles. We expect to see strong revenue growth in our IGBT modules for EV traction inverters as our design wins ramp in China this year.
In ADAS, we continue to win designs for our CMOS image sensors with leading global OEMs. Our competitive position in automotive CMOS image sensors remain solid and our customers value our technology leadership and breadth of product offerings in this market. We are seeing strong customer interest in our recently introduced backside illumination image sensors for automotive applications. We are making strong progress in LIDAR and we expect to commence commercial shipments of our LIDAR products in mid to late 2021.

During the second quarter, we also secured major design wins for surround vision applications. We expect to begin seeing revenue from these wins in mid-2021. Our ability to integrate our automotive sensor products with our analog and power products, coupled with our deep automotive systems expertise has provided us with a very formidable competitive advantage. Customers continue to place very high value on our ability to provide complete solutions for various automotive sensor applications. Revenue in the third quarter of 2020 for the automotive end market is expected to be up strongly quarter-over-quarter as we expect to see worldwide recovery in automotive production.
The industrial end market which includes military, aerospace and medical contributed revenue of $348 million in the second quarter. The industrial end market represented 29% of our revenue in the second quarter. Year-over-year, our second quarter industrial revenue declined 3%. This decline was driven by a reduction in global industry activity and supply constraints due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
We're seeing strong traction for our silicon carbide products in industrial power applications with an expanding base of customers. Recently, we announced a win with Delta for our silicon carbide power modules for solar inverter applications. Demand for industrial automation continues to grow at a rapid pace. We've secured major design wins for our image sensors for industrial applications, and we expect revenue from these wins to be recognized in late 2020.
We continue to secure design wins for our large-format sensors in diverse industrial applications. We're engaged with leading global players on many warehouse, automation and robotic delivery products. We expect that e-commerce customers will be a key driver of our growth of industrial revenue in a year's timeframe. As is the case in the automotive market, we leverage our broad company-wide portfolio and customer relationship to secure design wins for our sensor products in the industrial market. We continue to make strong progress in industrial IoT space and are on track to launch our first industrial IoT connectivity product incorporating Wi-Fi technology from our Quantenna acquisition within a year.
Revenue in the third quarter of 2020 for the industrial end market is expected to be down quarter-over-quarter. Geopolitical issues related to a specific customer have adversely impacted our third quarter industrial revenue. We don't expect any further meaningful decline in revenue from this customer beyond the third quarter.
The communications end market which includes both networking and wireless, contributed revenue of $255 million in the quarter and represented 21% of our revenue during the second quarter. Second quarter communications revenue increased by 3% year-over-year. We saw strong year-over-year growth in our 5G business in the second quarter. On the smartphone front, we continue to increase our content in most popular platforms. Revenue in the third quarter of 2020 for the communications end market is expected to be down quarter-over-quarter. Our third quarter communications revenue has been impacted by delayed launches of certain platforms and geopolitical issues related to a specific customer. We don't expect any further meaningful decline in revenue from this customer beyond the third quarter.
The computing end market contributed revenue of $158 million in the second quarter. The computing end market represented 13% of our revenue in the second quarter. Second quarter computing revenue increased by 14% year-over-year due to strength in both server and client businesses. Revenue in the third quarter of 2020 for the computing end market is expected to be up quarter-over-quarter. We expect growth in both server and client parts of the computing business.

The consumer end market contributed revenue of $126 million in the second quarter. The consumer end market represented 10% of our revenue in the second quarter. Second quarter consumer revenue declined by 22% year-over-year. The year-over-year decline was due to broad-based weakness in consumer electronics market due to COVID-19 pandemic and our selective participation in this market. Revenue for the third quarter of 2020 for the consumer end market is expected to be up quarter-over-quarter due to normal seasonality.
In summary, gross margin expansion is a key strategic priority for the company. We have accelerated the pace of our manufacturing footprint optimization with the goal to drive significant gross margin expansion. Ramp of our 300-millimeter manufacturing processes at East Fishkill fab should further help in gross margin expansion. In the near-term, the expected decline in COVID-19-related expenses and impact of cost realignment measures should help expand margins. We've seen moderate improvement in business conditions to-date and we expect that this improvement should continue in the near-term.
We're seeing broad-based recovery across most end markets and geographies. Key secular mega-trends and long-term drivers of our business remain intact and we are excited about our medium to long-term prospects. We're seeing accelerating momentum in our key strategic initiatives for electric vehicles, robotics, factory and warehouse automation, cloud power and ADAS. As COVID-19-related impact subsides, we expect to see meaningful improvement in revenue growth and margin expansion.
Now I would like to turn it back over to Bernard for forward-looking guidance. Bernard?
Bernard Gutmann - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Thank you, Keith. Based on product booking trends, backlog levels and estimated turns levels, we anticipate that total ON Semiconductor revenue will be in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.33 billion in the third quarter of 2020. Our third quarter revenue has been impacted moderately by geopolitical issues related to a particular customer. At this time, near to mid-term expectations related to this customer have been de-risked to a large extent and we don't expect to see any further meaningful decline in revenue from this customer beyond the third quarter.
For third quarter of 2020, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin between 32% to 34%. Our third quarter gross margin outlook includes COVID-19-related costs of approximately $11 million. We expect total GAAP operating expenses of $307 million to $327 million. Our GAAP operating expenses include the amortization of intangibles, restructuring, asset impairments and other charges which are expected to be $30 million to $34 million. We expect total non-GAAP operating expenses of $277 million to $293 million in the third quarter.
We anticipate third quarter of 2020 GAAP net other income and expense including interest expense will be an expense of $42 million to $45 million which includes a non-cash interest expense of $9 million to $10 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP net other income and expense including interest expense will be an expense of $33 million to $35 million. Net cash paid for income taxes in the third quarter of 2020 is expected to be $17 million to $22 million. For 2020, we expect cash paid for taxes to be in the range of $54 million to $60 million.
We expect total capital expenditures of $80 million to $90 million in the third quarter of 2020. We're currently targeting an overwhelming proportion of our CapEx for enabling our 300-millimeter capability at an accelerated pace. For 2020, we expect total capital expenditures of approximately $400 million. We also expect share-based compensation of $17 million to $19 million in the third quarter of 2020, of which approximately $2 million is expected to be in the cost of goods sold, and the remaining amount is expected to be in operating expenses. This expense is included in our non-GAAP financial measures.

Our GAAP diluted shares for the third quarter of 2020 is expected to be 460 million shares based on our current stock price. Our non-GAAP diluted share count for the third quarter of 2020 is expected to be 411 million shares based on our current stock price. Further details on share count and earnings per share calculations are provided regularly in our quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K respectively.
With that, I would like to start the Q&A session. Thank you. And Jay, please open the line for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you, sir. The first question comes from the line of Ross Seymore of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. First question I had is on the gross margin line. It's good to see no negative surprises on that for the first time in a couple quarters. So I just wanted to look at, in the near-term, how you expect those COVID-related charges to trend. You still have a bit in the third quarter. Do they go away in the fourth quarter? And then much more importantly, longer-term, with the Belgium fab and the Niigata fab potentially being sold or shut down, how do we think about the long-term gross margin potential? When do those benefits come in? What's your new target, etcetera?
Bernard Gutmann - ON Semiconductor Corp.
Thank you, Ross. Let me first address the – the COVID-related expenses is a little bit difficult to predict exactly when those are going to go away. As we said, a lot of those are related to freight expenses which are at a premium right now as well as safety protocols that we have put in place. Obviously, it will be a function of how the COVID pandemic progresses over time, and we expect those gradually to come down, but we are projecting that those will continue during the third quarter.
We have typically assessed the savings associated with a 6-inch fab to be in the $25 million to $30 million of fixed costs that go away per year. The timing of the savings is really a function of business dynamics, and we don't have a perfect timeline from the time we conclude a sale. It will still take us probably about 1 to 1.5 years until we get full savings, but that depends on really when we get these deals concluded. Long-term, we still are aspiring and still are targeting to achieve our long-term goal of 43% that we enumerated in our 2019 Analyst Day, albeit probably a little bit delayed with the fact that 2019 and 2020 were obviously not very good years from a top line point of view.
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Got it. Thanks for the color. And then my follow-up, I just wanted to hit on the revenue side. In the last couple quarters, you talked about supply disruptions, and I think everybody understands that. But they were, in the first quarter, a bit over $100 million; I think it was about the same in the second quarter is what you originally said. So did you have those supply disruptions impacting revenue in the second quarter? And then potentially more importantly, if you don't have any in the third quarter, are those revenues just gone? Or like so many of your peers, are you actually expecting to catch up on some of the formerly delinquent shipping?
Keith D. Jackson - ON Semiconductor Corp.
So we did continue to have supply constraints or pandemic-induced supply constraints in the second quarter that was reflected in the total numbers. They are much less in the third quarter and we're hopeful that there will be none before the end of the year. But at this stage, again, everything is still unknown if there's flare-ups or changes around the world; there's still risk.
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Chris Danely of Citigroup. Your line is open.

Christopher Brett Danely - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Thanks, guys. First question is you managed to do a really good job keeping the OpEx down in Q2, and you're – you've given us some good guidance for Q3. How about longer-term trends in OpEx with some of these restructuring plans? What can we expect for the next, I guess, several quarters?
Bernard Gutmann - ON Semiconductor Corp.
So, indeed, we did take some significant actions that helped us over-achieve our second quarter and third quarter guidance. In the long run, we're still targeting to achieve the 21% of OpEx as we have enumerated in our Analyst Day. However, we have to be aware that at some point of time, depending on business conditions, some of the temporary actions as well as some of the variable comp will come back and will cause a temporary blip that will be gradually leveraged through as we increase revenues.
Christopher Brett Danely - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Got it. And then for my follow-up, any commentary or color on the Koch Industries' investment? Why did you adopt the shareholder rights program? And do you expect them to be a passive or active shareholder?
Keith D. Jackson - ON Semiconductor Corp.
They have indicated publicly their passive intent as a shareholder and had no further communication.
Christopher Brett Danely - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of Chris Caso of Raymond James. Your line is open.
