ON Semiconductor Corporation (NASDAQ:ON) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call February  1, 2021  9:00 AM ET
Executives
Parag Agarwal - VP, Corporate Development and IR
Hassane El-Khoury - President and CEO
Bernard Gutmann - CFO
Analysts
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Chris Danely - Citi
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Raji Gill - Needham & Company
Matt Ramsay - Cowen & Company
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho Securities
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Vivek Arya - Bank of America
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna International Group
Craig Ellis - B. Riley Securities
Kevin Cassidy - Rosenblatt Securities
David O'Connor - Exane BNP Paribas
Harlan Sur - J.P. Morgan
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
William Stein - Truist Securities
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the ON Semiconductor Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to one of your speakers today, Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.
Parag Agarwal
Thank you, Michelle. Good morning and thank you for joining ON Semiconductor Corporation's fourth quarter 2020 quarterly results conference call. I'm joined today by Hassane El-Khoury, our President and CEO; and Bernard Gutmann, our CFO.
This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our Web site, at www.onsemi.com. A replay of this webcast, along with our 2020 fourth quarter earnings release, will be available on our Web site approximately one hour following this conference call, and a recorded webcast will be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call. Additional information related to our end-markets, business segments, geographies, channels, share count, and 2021 fiscal calendars are also posted on our Web site.
Our earnings release and this presentation include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measures under GAAP are also included in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our Web site in the Investor Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we will make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding our future events or the future financial performance of the company. The words "believe," "estimate," "project," "anticipate," "intend," "may," "expect," "will," "plan," "should," or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from projections.
Important factors which can affect our business, including factors that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, are described in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional factors are described in our earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2020. Our estimates or other forward-looking statements may change, and the company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other events that may occur except as required by law.
We have changed the date for our Analyst Day. Now, we plan to host our Analyst Day on August 5, 5th of this year instead of on March 5. With the recent change in leadership of the company, we believe that we will need -- we will be able to provide and form a completed view of our updated strategy and financial targets of August 5.
Now, let me turn it over to Hassane. Hassane?
Hassane El-Khouryernard
Thank you, Parag, and thank you everyone for joining us today. I want to start by expressing how excited I am to be a part of this [solid] [Ph] company and its incredibly talented and motivated workforce. I will start by sharing with you the initial observations and updating you on the process we will use to evolve the future strategy and direction of the company. I will then address our fourth quarter 2020 results, and turn the call over to Bernard to discuss financials and forward-looking guidance.
I took the role as CEO because I could clearly see the tremendous potential we have even as I looked at it from the outside. Having been in the role for a few months now, I can see a company with outstanding assets, including a highly talented and motivated workforce, intellectual property, sales channels, products, customer relationships, brand, and industry-leading operational prowess, to name a few. We are focused on the right markets which are the fastest growing semiconductor end markets with solid margin potential. I am excited about the opportunities we have in front of us to maximize the value for our shareholders, customers, and employees.
As I dove deeper into the company during the last eight weeks I have been positively surprised, and have grown increasingly bullish about our prospects. The opportunities in front of us far exceed my initial expectations, and I am working with my team to turn these opportunities into a strategy with a credible execution plan. I'm very confident that we will be able to deliver the full potential of the company to our stakeholders. At this time, I don't have all the answers to what the future strategy and direction of the company will be, however, I will walk you through the process we will be following to get there and be able to share the details with you at our Analyst Day, in August.
It should come as no surprise that our primary value driver will come from our gross margin expansion initiative. At this time, we aim to maintain the over-market revenue growth in our strategic markets, while being opportunistic in others. We will focus on maximizing free cash flow to de-lever our balance sheet and set us up to remain a consolidator. To achieve our objective of maximizing shareholder value, we are ready to make substantial changes in our strategy, business, and organization. We have begun the process of reevaluating our current product portfolio and our investments across the board. We will reallocate investments and resources to accelerate our growth in high-margin businesses, away from non-differentiated products and markets which have had a historically low margin profile.
We will reduce complexity, streamline the organization, and improve efficiencies. After realigning our investments with our products and market strategy, we will double down on R&D to accelerate growth and margin expansion. We will rationalize our manufacturing footprint to align with our investment priorities and new corporate strategy. Our primary goal is to reduce volatility in our margins and maximize return on our manufacturing investments. Our product strategy will drive our manufacturing footprint and capital investments. We intend to transition to a lighter fab model in which our margins are not as heavily influenced by our fab loadings. As you can already tell, we have hit the ground running, and we are making progress in a short period of time. We will provide you with greater insight into our strategy and targets at our Analyst Day, on August 5. In the meantime, we plan to continue to provide updates as we make progress.
Now, moving on to the fourth quarter 2020 results, revenue for the fourth quarter of 2020 was $1.45 billion, an increase of 3% year-over-year. We saw a steep improvement in demand in the fourth quarter, and the momentum has continued thus far in the current quarter. The surge in demand is driven by a broad-based improvement in global macro economic conditions, and lean channel and end market inventories. The automotive end market had the steepest recovery in the fourth quarter. Based on current demand trends and the global macro outlook, we expect to continue to see above-seasonal demand trends in the near-term.
On the supply side, we have been able to manage our customers' requirements for products thus far. As semiconductor vendors increase supply and customers fulfill pent-up demand the temporary supply-demand imbalance should subside in a few quarters. Let me discuss a few highlights of our key strategic end markets, starting with automotive. Revenue for the automotive market in Q4 2020 was a record $491 million, and represented 34% of our revenue and an increase of 6% from Q4 of 2019. Our 2020 automotive revenue declined by 7.5% year-over-year but significantly outperformed the 2020 global automotive production unit which declined by 16% over the same period. The significant outperformance was driven by increasing content for our products and fastest-growing applications in the automotive market.
Our design win funnel continues to expand. We won ADAS and viewing sockets on many of the recently announced platforms. We also secured a win for our LiDAR products with a European automotive OEM. We expect this win to ramp later this year. Another significant design during the fourth quarter was with a major tier 1 for our sensor module which features a lens integrated in a sensor pocket package for in-vehicle experience application. We continue to see strong momentum for our silicon carbide and IGBT product for electric vehicles, and expect to see strong ramp in our EV-related revenue with various models going production in 2020 and 2022. The industrial end market, which includes military, aerospace, and medical, contributed revenue of $384 million in the fourth quarter of 2020 at 24% of our revenue.
Year-over-year, our fourth quarter industrial revenue increased by 2%, this increase was driven by broad-based pickup in global industrial activity, partially offset by geopolitical issues related to a specific customer. In the industrial end market, we continue to see strong momentum for our power modules and alternative energy applications. Our customer base for power semiconductor and alternative energy has expanded by approximately 50% in 2020. We expect to see strong growth in this business as the U.S. administration is focused on the reduction in global carbon emissions. We are seeing strong traction for machine vision factory automation applications with our exit XGS family of image sensors. In the communications end market, we expect strong growth in 2021 for our 5G-related revenue driven by increased 5G capital expenditure by carriers.
Now, I will turn the call over to Bernard to provide additional details on our financials and guidance. Bernard?
Bernard Gutmann
Thank you, Hassane. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we saw continuing recovery in business conditions driven by robust growth in global economic activity. Order activity accelerated sharply across most end markets as customers are ramping production and replenishing inventory to meet the steep increase in end market demand. Along with the strong broad-based recovery in macroeconomic conditions, secular mega trends in automotive, industrial, and cloud power markets continue to drive our business. Gross margin improvement is the primary strategic priority for the company.
As Hassane indicated in his remarks, we are going to do a detailed review of our product portfolio. The primary objective is to reallocate our capital to drive margin expansion and growth. Our revised product strategy will determine our capital expenditures and investments in other resources needed to support the business. We will update you with our progress as we go through the process. We are on track with our manufacturing consolidations win and discussions are ongoing with various parties regarding the previously announced intended sales of our fabs in Belgium and Niigata, Japan. We have closed our operations and sold the fab in Rochester, New York, and we should begin to realize annual savings of $15 million starting in the first quarter of 2021.
Now, let me provide you additional details on our results. Total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2020 was $1.45 billion, an increase of 3% as compared to revenue of $1.40 billion in the fourth quarter of 2019. The year-over-year increase in revenue was driven by growth in our key strategic end market. GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $0.21 per diluted share, as compared to a net income of $0.14 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2019.
Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2020 was $0.35 per diluted share as compared to $0.30 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2019. GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter of 2020 were 34.4% as compared to 34.6% in the fourth quarter of 2019. The year-over-year decline in gross margin was driven primarily by a weakening U.S. dollar against currencies in most regions in which we operate our manufacturing facilities.
Our GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2020 was 11.6% as compared to 9.9% in the fourth quarter of 2019. Our non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2020 was 14.2%, as compared to 12.3% in the fourth quarter of 2019. The year-over-year increase in operating margin was driven largely by lower operating expenses. GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2020 were $329.6 million as compared to $346.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2019.
Non-GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2020 were $292.4 million as compared to $313.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2019. The year-over-year decrease non-GAAP operating expenses was driven primarily by restructuring and cost saving measures undertaken by the company.
Fourth quarter 2023 cash flow was $284 million and operating cash flow was $400 million. Full-year 2023 cash flow increased to $501 million from $160 million in 2019, despite a 5% decline in revenue.
Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter of 2020 were $116.4 million, which equates to a capital intensity of 8%. As indicated previously, we're directing most of our capital expenditures worth enabling our 300 millimeters capability of the East Fishkill fab. Total capital expenditures for 2020 were $384 million. We exited the fourth quarter of 2020 with cash and cash equivalents of $1.081 billion as compared to $1.654 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2020. The decline in our cash balance was primarily related to the repayment or 2020 convertible note principle at maturity in December 2020.
At the end of the fourth quarter of 2020 days of inventory on hand were 120 days, down 13 days as compared to 133 in the third quarter of 2020. At this time, we're comfortable with the level of our balance sheet inventory. In the fourth quarter of 2020, distribution inventory decrease marginally at sales through the distribution channels increased significantly quarter-over-quarter. Distribution inventories are within our target range of 11 to 30 weeks.
Now let me provide you an update on the performance by our business units starting with Power Solutions Group or PSG. Revenue for PSG for the fourth quarter was $716 million. Revenue for the Advanced Solutions Group or ASG for the fourth quarter was $522 million and revenue for Intelligence Sensing Group or ISG was $208 million.
Moving on to guidance based on product bookings events, backlog levels, and estimated turn levels, we anticipate the total ON Semiconductor revenue will be in the range of $1.41 billion to $1.51 billion in the first quarter of 2021. For the first quarter of 2021, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin between 34.1% and 36.1%. We expect total GAAP operating expenses for the first quarter of 2021 of $345 million to $363 million. Our GAAP operating expenses include the amortization will be manageable restructuring as an impairments and other charges, which are expected to be in the $32 million to $36 million range.
We expect total loan GAAP operating expenses from $313 million to $327 million in the first quarter. The expected increase in our first quarter operating expenses as compared to those in the fourth quarter is driven by the expected the group or variable compensation in anticipation of a strong financial performance in 2021, and is in line with the $25 million to $30 million increase foreshadow in the last quarter earnings calls prepared remarks.
In our 2020 operating expenses, the variable component of compensation was not significant. For the first quarter of 2021, we anticipate GAAP net other income and expense including interest expense will be an expense of $34 to $37 million which includes the non-cash interest expense of $45 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP net other income and expenses including interest expense will be an expense of $30 to $32 million. Net cash paid for income taxes in the first quarter of 2021 is expected to be in the $18 to $24 million. For 2021, we expect cash paid for income taxes to be in the rage of $80 to $90 million. We expect total capital expenditures of $90 to $100 million in the first quarter of 2021.
We expect share-based compensation of $15 to $17 million in the first quarter of 2021. Of which, approximately $3 million is expected to be in cost of goods sold. And the remaining amount is expected to be in operating expense. This expense is included in our non-GAAP financial measures. Our GAAP diluted share count for the first quarter of 2021 is expected to be 438 to 439 million shares based on our current stock price.
Our non-GAAP diluted share count for the first quarter of 2021 is expected to be 431 million shares based on our current stock price. Further details on share count and earnings per share calculations are provided regularly in our quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K respectively.
I would like to end my comments on a personal note. As you are all aware, I have decided to retire after 39 years with ON Semiconductor and its predecessor company. It has truly been an honor to sever the company and its shareholders, employers, and customers for all these years. I have enjoyed interacting with all of you over the years. You have kept me on my toes and always helped me strive to do better at my job. ON Semiconductor has a very bright future. And the company is well-positioned to deliver significant value to its shareholders, customers, and employees.
With that, I would like to start the Q&A session. Thank you. And Michelle, please open the line for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Ross Seymore
Hey, guys, thanks for letting me ask the questions. First, Bernard, great working with you all the years, congrats on the retirement. My first question is for Hassane. You mentioned a laundry list of actions you are going to take structurally for the company, I know you are not going into exceedingly detailed levels before the analyst meeting in August, but I wondered how you are balancing the gross margin side versus the OpEx and operating margin side. You mentioned about doubling down on R&D. How do you balance the gross margin versus the operating margin priority for the company?
Hassane El-Khoury
Sure, Ross. Let me give you kind of how the approach has been because we started doing that work. At a high-level, you can think about it as self-funding, meaning, I don't like to dabble, whether we say we are working on it or not, if we are creating products and low margin businesses or markets that are not our strategic markets, those investments are going to stop. That's going to release capital for us to re-invest, and that's where the doubling down. And don't think about it as we are going to double down and OpEx is going to flip up beyond the levels. We are going to actually reallocate OpEx. And with the simplicity and removing complexity and the way we run our operations here, that's going to release a lot of more capital for us to reinvest. So, I am not worried about having enough investments that we can reallocate, while maintaining at or below our OpEx, which obviously will drive our operating margin favorably.
Ross Seymore
Thanks for the details, Hassane. And I guess one for either you or Bernard, the guidance is better than seasonally, you said that's going to continue for a bit. Was the better-than-seasonal comment just about the first quarter, or was it longer than that? Any color between the different segments to get to your guidance for the first quarter?
Hassane El-Khoury
Yes. This is Hassane again. Our focus right now is in the first quarter. Obviously, we are coming out of a very lean inventory, both our customers and the supply chain. So, that's a rebound we are seeing in Q1 better than seasonal. I remain cautiously optimistic for the rest of the year, but it's too soon to call the rest of the year at this point.
In the prepared marks we talked about it may take a few quarters to kind of stabilize the supply and demand situation, and that's when we'll get a little bit more clarity. Obviously, if you've seen the news, a lot of that strength is coming from automotive, and we it the same way, which is a big market and a focus market for us. So we're watching it closely, but I remain cautiously optimistic until we get out of the trend of supply-demand imbalance.
Ross Seymore
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Chris Danely with Citi. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Chris Danely
Thanks, guys. Hey, first of all, Bernard congratulations [indiscernible], I'm jealous. But first question is just on OpEx. I guess what's the thought process of an upfront payment to everybody in front of the upturn versus afterwards? And is this -- should we consider this as the new baseline for OpEx or could it trend down after this?
Bernard Gutmann
So it is not an upfront payment, it is an accrual, an accounting accrual as we have an annual plan which actually book cash-wise basis next year, in February, if we achieve the numbers. So this is just an accounting accrual recognizing the liability we are creating with delivering results that lead to the new plan.
Hassane El-Khoury
Yes, let me just put that stake in the ground. We are 100% focused on pay for performance. We have to accrue throughout the year. But pay will occur in 2022 in the first quarter, just like it did this time for the prior year, so it's after the fact. We don't do any advanced planning as far as payment in any form to employees until after the performance period is done and validated.
Chris Danely
Great. And then…
Bernard Gutmann
To your question about trend on OpEx, we believe we have the step function increase. And pretty much after that it should be fairly steady -- [multiple speakers]…
Chris Danely
Okay, great. Thanks, Bernard. And for my follow-up, hey, Hassane, you mentioned you're going to take a look at the product lines. I guess what sort of rough percentage of revenue are we talking about that's being targeted as far as these low-margin product lines? And can you shed any light on what are these low-margin product lines, is it some MOSFETs or IGBTs or is there some other sort of like passive types of products you guys have?
Hassane El-Khoury
Sure. It's too soon to tell as far as to give you a percent, because literally I am looking at everything. But the way I look at it is strategic alignment to our end market, strategic alignment to our margin target, and really strategic alignment to the growth that we want to set for the company, both in gross margin expansion and revenue. So, to put a percent on how much is that, it's hard to tell. But it's not going to be like you were expecting or IGBT or effect of whatever kind, because we're not looking at it as just a product family. I'll give you an example. We have IGBTs that goes into EVs; I love that. That's a growth market, it's good margin, and we have a very good position in that market. That's going to be obviously a growth product and market for us. But IGBT and a low margin consumer, that is not going to be an investment for us. So that's the surgical approach we are actually proceeding in order to get the right balance we talked about already.
Chris Danely
Got it, that makes sense. Thanks, guys.
Hassane El-Khoury
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Toshiya Hari
Good morning. Thanks very much for taking the question. And Bernard, thank you for all the help. Hassane, you talked about you guys addressing demand, so far being pretty successful in addressing demand so far. But can you speak to where lead times are for your business today versus three months ago, six months ago? And sort of related to that, how is the pricing outlook for your business over the next six to four months in relation to what you guys have seen over the past few years?
Bernard Gutmann
And so let me address the lead times, they have been inching up. They are still in mid-teens, but moving upwards in direction.
Hassane El-Khoury
Yes, for the pricing, we see a healthy pricing environment. Obviously, there are price increases that we have incurred from our supply chain, and we are working with customers to pass those on down the supply chain from where we are. There, of course, was supply and demand. We are always reviewing our pricing posture, and we're doing that as we speak. And it's not just only -- let me [reiterate] [Ph] a little bit on it's not just the supply and demand. We do have high-value products, and those high-value products demand a higher margin. So I'm reviewing all our pricing disciple outside of just the supply and demand, and that's something you should see from us moving forward as a structural change we're implementing in the company. Where that's going to get us and where it's going to land as far as tangible result that I can credibly talk to you, that's going to be in the August meeting, because that will give me enough runway to establish that process and see the impact.
Toshiya Hari
Great, thank you. And there is a quick follow-up, just on sort of the long-term model. Again, I appreciate you're not going to preview your August Analyst Day, but when you look at some of the numbers that Keith and Bernard put up during their last investor day, a mid single-digit revenue growth, 43% gross margin, 21% OpEx intensity. Given what you've seen so far, Hassane, where do your views differ the most, is it more on the growth side, is it more on the margin side, is it both? Any would be super helpful. Thank you.
Hassane El-Khoury
Look, it's not about the top line or gross margin, my focus is on the timing of it. That's kind of where I'm putting my energy right now. And then we will talk about what does that yield on top line and how quickly do we get to the -- and we're going to call it the 43, because that's the only number that is available externally. A lot of people ask me what should we be looking for as far as a financial model, and my answer, and I'll reiterate it here, just hold us accountable to whatever we -- the company has done already even though it was not me personally, until I stand in front of all of you, in August, and change it. But for now, just hold us accountable to the target and the financial model that we have made available already as a company.
Toshiya Hari
Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Raji Gill with Needham. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Raji Gill
Yes, thank you, and best of luck, Bernard, and congrats, Hassane, on the new role. Hassane, a question on the 300 millimeter, the transition that's been undergoing for a couple years, any thoughts on how that progress is happening? And what are your thoughts on that transition to 300 millimeter? Are there steps that you want to try to accelerate that transition and what would they be?
Hassane El-Khoury
Sure. Obviously a 300 millimeter transition is a transition that we need as a company. We have it internally, and the company has already set itself on a path to have an insource fab for that. There's obviously -- we're looking at the baseline to see if we need more how do we get it. It doesn't necessarily mean we're going to have a multitude of fabs at the 12 inch. It's going to be driven -- to answer your question more directly, it's going to be driven by the product portfolio that we're going to have and we want to be investing in over the next five years, and that's part of the portfolio rationalization. I can't really address a need for a manufacturing footprint until I know exactly what we want to do, where the margin is going to come from, and what the