ON Semiconductor Corporation (NASDAQ:ON) Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call November  1, 2021  9:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Hassane El-Khoury – President and CEO
Parag Agarwal – Investor Relations
Thad Trent – CFO
Conference Call Participants
Ross Seymore – Deutsche Bank
Vivek Arya – Bank of America Securities
Toshiya Hari – Goldman Sachs
Harsh Kumar – Piper Sandler
Raji Gill – Needham & Company
Chris Caso – Raymond James
John Pitzer – Credit Suisse
Harlan Sur – JPMorgan
Tory Stanford – Stifel
Pradeep Rahmani – UBS
William Stein – Truist Securities
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the ON Semiconductor Third Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn today's call over to Mr. Parag Agarwal. Sir, please go ahead.
Parag Agarwal
Thank you, Brent. Good morning, and thank you for joining On Semi's third quarter 2021 quarterly results conference call. I am joined today by Hassane El-Khoury, our President and CEO; and Thad Trent, our CFO. This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A replay of this webcast, along with our 2021 third quarter earnings release will be available on our website, approximately one hour following this conference call, and the recorded webcast will be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call. Additional information related to our end markets, business segments, geographies, channels, share count, and 2021 and 2022 fiscal calendar is also posted on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our earnings release and this presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measures under GAAP are included in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in the Investor Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we will make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events or future financial performance of the Company. The words believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intend, may, expect, will, plan, should, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from projections.
Important factors that can affect our business, including factors that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are described in our most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional factors are described in our earnings release for the third quarter of 2021. Our estimates or other forward-looking statements may change and the Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other events that may occur except as required by law.
Now, let me turn it over to Hassane. Hassane?
Hassane El-Khoury
Thank you, Parag, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We delivered yet another quarter of record results, driven by exceptional execution by our worldwide teams and strong demand for our Intelligent Power and Sensing products. We posted record quarterly revenue and non-GAAP operating margin and EPS. With our results and outlook, we have made a solid start towards achieving our financial target model.
Even though our Q3 results and Q4 outlook significantly exceed expectations, we believe that we are just in the early innings of transforming the business. As we make further progress in our transformation initiatives and as our Intelligent Power and Sensing design win ramp with automotive and industrial customers, we expect to see sustained revenue growth and margin expansion.
Today, we announced the close of our acquisition of GT Advanced Technologies or GTAT. As we outlined at our Analyst Day, our goal is to provide our customers in the industrial and automotive end markets with highly differentiated Intelligent Power and Sensing Solutions, and we are investing to achieve that goal. With GTAT’s market-leading silicon carbide substrate technology, onsemi is now the only silicon carbide player in the industry with end-to-end capabilities encompassing modules, devices, and substrates.
Our acquisition of GTAT has been a catalyst for key automotive customers to engage in long-term strategic partnerships with us, and we can expect GTAT to be a critical enabler of our impending ramp in our silicon carbide business.
In fact, in Q4, 2021, we will be shipping silicon carbide product-based revenue utilizing the GTAT substrate. I am also excited to announce that GTAT has delivered 200 millimeter bolts [ph], which we have processed at our onsemi manufacturing facility and we'll be sampling our first devices in January 2022. We welcome the GTAT team to the onsemi family and look forward to expanding its capacity to support our silicon carbide growth plans.
On a year-to-date basis, our power design win funnel grew by 75% year-over-year. At the end of the third quarter, we have signed LTSAs for committed revenue of $2.5 billion over three years for our Power Solutions. Over $2 billion of this committed revenue is for our Silicon Carbide solutions for automotive and industrial applications and two-thirds of this committed revenue is for traction inverters for electric vehicles.
We expect to exit 2023 with silicon carbide revenue run rate of about $1 billion. The demand of our Intelligent Power and Sensing Solutions in our strategic end markets continues to outpace our current supply capability. The strength and demand is driven by secular mega trends such as vehicle electrification, ADAS, industrial automation, and transition to alternative energy from fossil fuel-based power generation. For the third quarter, automotive and industrial end markets together grew 42% year-over-year.
On a year-to-date basis, our design win funnel for these end markets grew 55% year-over-year, giving us excellent visibility into future revenue. In addition to secular factors, demand for our products is being driven by industry-leading performance of our products in both Intelligent Power and Sensing.
Consistent with our strategy outlined at our Analyst Day, we are driving a make-shift towards automotive and industrial end markets to drive margin expansion. For the third quarter, automotive and industrial together contributed 60% of our revenue as compared to 56% in the quarter a year ago, and we will continue phasing out low-margin non-core revenue into next year.
Looking forward, we expect demand to remain robust and outpace supply through most of 2022. We are selectively investing in our operations to relieve capacity bottlenecks for our strategic product lines while working with our foundry partners to obtain a higher allocation of capacity. At the same time, we are shifting our production to strategic high-value mixed of products.
Longer-term, we are qualifying products and the 300 millimeter East Fishkill facility to increase the efficiency of our fab network while executing our fab lighters strategy. Along with expanding supply, we are working collaboratively with our customers to ensure uninterrupted supply of our products, and we have entered into long-term supply agreements with many of them. These LTSAs commit a multiyear revenue stream with stable and sustainable margin.
Coupled with our expanding design win pipeline in the automotive and industrial end-markets, we have outstanding visibility into our revenue and in margin in support of our target model. Along with entering into LTSAs, many of our largest automotive and industrial customers are co-investing with us. These investments solidify the strategic nature of our LTSA and enable us to support our customers by ensuring supply and providing development support.
Let me now discuss a few highlights of our key strategic end markets, starting with automotive. We set a record for our automotive revenue in Q3 of $575.6 million. Automotive represented 33% of our revenue in Q3 and grew 37% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter. The strength in automotive was driven by both our Power and Sensing product categories.
We are seeing strong momentum in our electric vehicle business for both silicon carbide and IGBT-based solutions. We have signed LTSAs for committed revenue for EVs, a little less than $2 billion over the next few years, starting to ramp in Q4 2021 and approximately doubling year-over-year for the next few years. Over 80% of this committed revenue is for silicon carbide solution for EV traction inverters.
As we have indicated earlier, in addition to the industry-leading performance of our fabs, a key source of our differentiation is our expertise in packaging, which is critical for improving heat dissipation, increasing power output at a smaller footprint than our closest competitor, and reducing weight and cost of a power module. The efficiency of our modules allows our customers to make no trade-offs between the cost of battery and the range of the vehicle, they get both.
Our Automotive Imaging revenue grew more than 10% quarter-over-quarter, and 45% year-over-year. We continued to see momentum in Automotive Safety with new design wins and increasing content for our CMOS image sensors, and power management. Year-to-date, our automotive imaging design-win funnel grew by 75% year-over-year. As systems shift to higher pixel density, and the need for automotive safety requirements around power management increases our content will increase as these solutions have higher ASP.
The increase is further compounded by a higher number of sensors and power ICs per car and increasing number of cars with active safety features. The industrial-end market which includes military, aerospace, and medical, contributed revenue of $478.5 million in Q3, representing approximately 27% of our revenue. Our third quarter Industrial Revenue increased by 48% year-over-year and 11% quarter-over-quarter, driven by strong demand for our Intelligent Power and Sensing Solutions. We are seeing a more than 2x growth in our design-win funnel from alternative energy customers for our Power Solution and expect the alternative energy market to be a long-term driver for our business as utility scale power plant installation are expected to grow worldwide to reduce the climate impact of fossil fuel-based power plant.
Industrial power tools are another area of growth, as power tools are transitioning from brushed motors to brushless motors and from AC to battery powered, both trends driving significantly higher content for us. The demand for our imaging products and industrial automation applications remained strong with 20% quarter-over-quarter growth. Industrial customers are investing in automation at an increased base to improve efficiency and to reduce volatility and operations due to social distancing mandates and labor shortages. We have leveraged our experience in automotive to offer our industrial customers rugged, high-resolution, and high image quality sensors for the most demanding industrial applications. Now I will turn the call over to Thad to provide additional details on our financials and guidance.
Thad Trent
Thanks Hassane. I'm pleased to announce yet another quarter of record results. As Hassane mentioned, we posted record quarterly revenue and record non-GAAP operating margin and earnings per share while generating free cash flow margin of 20% for the quarter. All 3 of our business units reported record quarterly revenue, and our targeted automotive and industrial end markets, grew sequentially, achieving record revenue levels. With a rapidly expanding design win funnel of Intelligent Power and Sensing Solutions, and ongoing structural changes for our business. we are well positioned to make sustained progress towards our targeted financial model.
While the onsemi team has accomplished a lot in a short period of time, we have significant opportunities ahead of us to drive sustained revenue growth and predictable financial performance. From a revenue perspective, we are in the early innings of the ramp in our vehicle. I would like to recap some business and expect to be a significant driver of our long-term growth complemented by increasing demand for ADAS, Industrial Automation and alternative energy. We're pleased with our performance thus far and remain focused on margin expansion as we execute our transformation initiatives, including the portfolio optimization and our Baton lighter strategy. The turning to the results for the third quarter. Total revenue for the third quarter was $1.74 billion, an increase of 32% over the third quarter of 2020, 4% quarter-over-quarter.
The sequential revenue growth was driven by our ability to increase our supply both internally and externally, shipping 3% more units than in Q2, and favorable mix in pricing across all end markets. Revenue for our Intelligent Power and Intelligent Sensing products were also at record revenue levels, increasing sequentially, 3% and 8% respectively while accounting for 62% of total revenue in Q3. Our Automotive Revenue grew 37% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. Industrial Revenue grew 48% year-over-year and 11% sequentially. Automotive and industrial contributed a total of 60% of revenue in Q3 as compared to 56% in the year-ago quarter. Turning to the business units, revenue for the Power Solutions Group or PSG, was $892.2 million. PSG revenue increased by 38% year-over-year due to strength in automotive and industrial-end markets.
Revenue for the Advanced Solutions Group, or ASG was $613.5 million, an increase of 24% year-over-year. In addition to strength in automotive, ASP benefited from strength in computing, especially in high-end graphics cards. Revenue for the Intelligent Sensing Group or ISG for the third quarter was $236.5 million, an increase of 35% year-over-year. Growth in ISG was driven by both automotive and industrial-end markets. GAAP gross margins for the Third Quarter was 41.4% and non-GAAP gross margin was 41.5% and 800 basis point improvement year-over-year. And a 310 basis point improvement quarter-over-quarter. Our gross margin expansion is ahead of our original plans with improved efficiencies of our manufacturing sites, favorable mix, and improved pricing as we continue to examine our portfolio for price-to-value discrepancies.
Over the last 2 quarters, we have exited approximately $100 million of non-core revenue at an average gross margin of 15% and allocated this capacity to strategic products with accretive gross margins. Over 60% of this exit accrued in Q3 and we expect to continue phasing out our low margin non-core revenue over the next two years, as we outlined at our August Analyst Day. Today, we have been successful in navigating rising input and manufacturing costs by adjusting pricing to our customers. While we will likely see more cost increases in early 2022, we don't expect these increases to have a negative impact on our gross margins. Our factory utilization with 80% down slightly from Q2 level of 83% due primarily to COVID related slowdowns affecting our back end facilities in the Southeast Asia.
As our operations stabilized, we expect utilization to remain in the low 80% range consistent with previous quarters. GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.70 per share. Non-GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.87 per diluted share as compared to $0.27 per share in the third quarter of 2020, and $0.63 in Q2. As noted earlier, this is the highest ever quarterly non-GAAP EPS reported by the Company. Now I'll give some additional numbers financial. GAAP operating expenses for the third quarter of 2021 were $321.6 million as compared to $322.2 million in the third quarter of 2020. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $296.2 million, a decline of $18 million quarter-over-quarter, as we continue to restructure our operations to align with our new strategy and reduce investments in our non-strategic areas.
While we saw benefits of lower APEX in Q3, we expect to redeploy capital into our strategic areas in Q4. And therefore, there will be an increase in spending back to normal run rate levels while achieving our 17% operating expense target. Our GAAP operating margin for the third quarter was 22.9% as compared to 9% in the third quarter of 2020. Our non-GAAP operating margin was at a record level of 24.5% as compared to 12% in the third quarter of 2020 and 19.6% in Q2. Our GAAP Diluted shares count was $440.7 million shares, and our non-GAAP Diluted shares count with $435.7 million. Please note we have an updated reference table on the Investor Relations section of our website to assist you with calculating our diluted share count in periods share prices. Turning to the Q3 Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents with $1.39 billion, and we had $1.97 billion undrawn are recover.
Cash from operations was $448.9 million and free cash flow was $355.7 million or 20% of revenue. Capital expenditures during the third quarter were $93.2 million, which equate to a capital intensity of 5.4%. As we indicated previously, we're directing a significant portion of our capital expenditures towards enabling our 300 millimeter capabilities at the East Fishkill Fab an expansion of silicon carbide capacity.
Accounts receivable was $720 million, resulting in AFL is outstanding 37 days. Inventory increased $18 million sequentially to $1.3 billion and days of inventory increased three days to 119 days. The increase in inventory was driven primarily by an initial build bridge inventory for vowed transition and work in progress inventory of finished wavers and not be processed through the back-end capacity constraints.
Distribution inventory decreased $39 million to 6.8 weeks from 7.3 weeks in Q2. Once again, we are proactively reducing that distribution inventory to hold more inventory in our balance sheet to support our customer needs rather than building inventory in the supply chain. Total debt was $3.1 billion and our net leverage ratio is now approximately at one times. Turning to guidance for the quarter and table dealing our -- detailing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance is provided in the press release related to our Third Quarter results. Our guidance includes our expected results for roughly 9 weeks of the GTAT acquisition after closing the last Thursday. Let me now provide you key elements of our non-GAAP guidance for the Fourth Quarter.
Based on booking trends, we believe demand will remain strong through much of next year. We continue to increase supply through operational efficiencies and working with our external partners to obtain additional capacity. We're also accelerating product qualification at our 300 millimeter fab at nice Fiscal. Despite these efforts, we will be limited by supply constraints and we're working with our strategic customers to ensure long-term, uninterrupted supply. Based on current bookings, trends and backlog levels, we anticipate that revenue for the fourth quarter will be in the range of $1.74 billion to $1.84 billion. This includes expected GTAT revenue of approximately $3 million to $4 million for the quarter.
We expect non-GAAP gross margins between 42% and 44%, and this includes share-based compensation of $3.6 million. We expect total non-GAAP operating expenses of $298 million to $313 million and includes roughly $4 million and OpEx for GTAT and share-based compensation, $18.6 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP OIE, including interest expense, will be $24 million to $27 million. So this result in non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $0.89 to a $1.1. This includes the impact of GTAT business, which is roughly $0.01 dilutive for the quarter. We expect total capital expenditures of $130 to $140 million in the quarter. Our non-GAAP diluted share count for the fourth quarter of 2021 is expected to be approximately 437 million shares.
So in summary, I am extremely pleased with our progress on the execution of our transformation initiatives. I add my thanks to our worldwide teams for their hard work and unwavering commitment to our customers.
With that, I'd like to start Q&A, but I'll turn it back over to Brent to open the line for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Ross Seymore
Hi, guys. Congratulations on the strong results. Hassane, my first question is for you, and that's on the transformation on the revenue line. At your Analyst Meeting, you talked about exiting 10% to 15% of your revenues over the next couple of years. I want to see if we get an update on that, and how much of that is a headwind today, or is that still yet to come?
Thad Trent
Hey, Ross. It's Thad. I'll take that. Yes, in my prepared remarks I talked about, we've exited approximately $100 million over the last two quarters, 60% of it being in the third quarter and the average margin for that business was roughly 15%. We plan on continue to exit that business over the next two years. As we've talked about, it will be kind of a - I think about being fairly linear for the next two years as we continue to execute, and we shift that capacity in the higher-value products and higher-value capacity.
Hassane El-Khoury
And then just to add to that, you talked about the headwind. We're able, of course, with the demand environment. We're able to shift that capacity to demand in our strategic market with our strategic customers. And that's the mix shift that we are going through and we'll keep going through that for the next couple of years.
Ross Seymore
Great, thanks for those details. And I guess the follow-on to that would be on the gross margins side, great job upsiding even your expectations there. Can you talk about how much of that do you view to be structural versus cyclical? And I know you're going to say it's structural because of everything you just answered my first question. But how much of a cyclical tailwind are you getting with price increases, et cetera, that you think are truly sustainable going forward?
Thad Trent
Yes. Look, hey, this is Thad again. We think the majority of it is structural, right? We've been making changes to our manufacturing operations, driving efficiencies there, it's the mix shift as well. There's definitely a pricing component of it, it's a favorable pricing market. As I stated, we've been passing on the cost increases that we've seen coming our way. We believe that we'll continue to get the gross margin expansion. Our target remains at 45% over time here and like I said, most of it is structural in nature.
Hassane El-Khoury 
Yes. At the end of the day, customers pay for value. We have been reducing the price to value discrepancy like we talked about. And the LTSAs provide longer-term visibility on both revenue and margin. And when we talk about long-term, we're talking about an average of three years. So that gives you kind of the structural nature of it and the sustainability of it to move forward.
Ross Seymore
Thanks, guys.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen in the interest of time, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question. Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya with Bank of America Securities. Your line is open.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question, and congratulations on the strong results and the very impressive execution. Hassane, how do you see the interplay between automotive production, which has been kind of flattish, right, very weak this year versus content and pricing? I mean, there's a lot of concern that auto chips suppliers are maybe shipping a lot to inventory rather than benefiting from content or pricing or mix. Would just love your views on that from an industry, but then obviously from an ON-specific perspective that, what's giving you the confidence that your sales that are exceeding units so much are really being driven by content or mix of pricing as opposed to sitting in inventory somewhere?
Hassane El-Khoury
Yeah, look, I can speak for onsemi first. We track content based on design wins that we have had over the last few years that are starting to ramp, and have ramped beyond what we expected in the '21 timeframe, that's why we can't support the demand. So from that point of view, I know exactly how much content has been going up for our customers using our products, so that ties and that gives me the confidence that it is a content growth story.
Now as far as people talk about inventory being built out, look, I gauge that. We have a lot of data to gauge it, but to me, the main gauge is the escalations that we're getting. We're still getting an intense level of escalations from our customers in order to ensure that parts go into cars and cars go out of the lot. That is a pretty good gauge for where the economy is and where our content is going.
I can tell you it's not being built up, it's going to cars because if we don't ship, the cars don't ship. That's a one-to-one correlation that I can personally validate given all my conversations with my peers at our customers. So both of these tell me that we are still in supply constrained. There is not inventory. Are there pockets, maybe one or two weeks of inventory here and there? Yes. Because we sometimes will pre-ship, and the customers we know are not able to kit it. But that last for about one or two weeks until they get our next shipment. So all of these things are manageable. We have full visibility on it and we track it internally and with our customers. So it gives me confidence.
Vivek Arya
Got it. Very helpful. And for my follow-up, Thad, great job on the gross margin side, but when I look at the incremental margins in Q3 and then the midpoint of Q4, it's over a 100%. I imagine part of it the exit from the non-core areas. But could you help us bridge what your original assumption was for kind of gross margin? Why is this coming at these levels? But then also importantly, you're at these kind of low 40s gross margins already before completing a lot of the actions that were supposed to take you to the 45% journey. So is 45% still the end kind of destination of this journey? Or do you think there’s very strong start given your confidence that, there are maybe levers to gross margins beyond what you have contemplated? Thank you.
Thad Trent
Yeah. Hi, Vivek. Look, we've always said, 45% is a milestone, right, and then we would talk once we got there. We're not changing that target. The improvement that we've seen has been through operational efficiencies, favorable mix, and then clearly pricing. If you go back to the chart that I showed in the Analyst Day, we provided the bridge. The next big piece of the improvement is really the manufacturing, the fab lighter footprint, right? And that's the part we've always said that we take the longest and would be the hardest to get. And it's about exiting the fabs and consolidating into more efficient fabs ramping the 300 millimeter fab, and that's the next leg that we've got to execute on.
So I think what we've been able to pull forward on is favorable mix, operational efficiencies. And then clearly a good pricing environment has helped. But the - what I think is going to get us to that next level of 45 is the manufacturing piece. And then once we get there, we'll talk about what the end goal should be. But we've never stated 45 would be the end goal as much as it was a milestone that we'd be looking to achieve.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Toshiya Hari
Good morning. Thanks so much for taking the question and congrats on the strong results. Hassane, in your prepared remarks, you talked a little bit about Southeast Asia on your operations there being a little bit disrupted in the quarter. Can you speak to any impact on revenue and gross margins in the quarter and where your operations are today? And then I've got a quick follow-up.
Thad Trent
Yeah. Hi, this is Thad. So we talked about our utilization came down slightly to 80%. We think that will return back into normal levels of low 80%. We think it had minimal impact on this quarter, primarily because we were able to allocate those resources and that capacity into other sites and recover from it. The sites are stabilizing now, they're not back up to full speed yet, but we think they will be there very quickly and that's why we think the utilization comes back up into normal run rate levels pretty quickly.
Toshiya Hari
Got it. That's helpful. And then as my follow-up, I wanted to ask about Q1 of next year. I think historically pre-Covid seasonality, what would drive business down a little bit? I think pricing some of the adjustments that you would make historically would hit Q1 disproportionately. Curious how we should be thinking about Q1 into next year, just given how strong the environment is. You talked about all the design wins on the visibility you have into the quarter. So should Q1 of 2022 be above seasonality? And again, how should we think about pricing and gross margins into the March quarter as well? Thank you.
Thad Trent
Well, we're not going to give you guidance for Q1. We only guide 1 quarter at a time. But normal seasonality for Q1 is down 2% to 3%. Based on what we see today, we are going to perform better than that and we can see in terms of backlog and supply coming online, and we're probably looking at flat to what our Q4 number is going to be. But we're not going to provide more guidance than that.
Toshiya Hari
Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Harsh Kumar with Piper Sandler. Your line is open.
Harsh Kumar
Yeah. Hey, guys. First of all, strong congratulations, tremendous execution effort here. I wanted to ask a broader question just above the diminution, the data. Maybe you can help us for -- I know that EVs are near and dear to your heart, and you're making a pretty big bet on that front. 2 things. How much revenue do you think you'll get from EVs today? And then once you start to get to your -- I think you said $1 billion in 202