ON Semiconductor Corporation (NASDAQ:ON) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call August  2, 2021  9:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Parag Agarwal - Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development
Hassane El-Khoury - President and Chief Executive Officer
Thad Trent - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Chris Danely - Citigroup
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler
Mark Lipacis - Jefferies
Raji Gill - Needham & Company
John Pitzer - Credit Suisse
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Vijay Rakesh - Mizuho Securities
William Stein - Truist Securities
Christopher Rolland - Susquehanna International Group, LLP
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ON Semiconductor Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.
Parag Agarwal
Thank you, Lynn. Good morning, and thank you for joining ON Semiconductor Corporation’s second quarter 2021 quarterly results conference call. I’m joined today by Hassane El-Khoury, our President and CEO; and Thad Trent, our CFO.
This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A replay of this webcast, along with our 2021 second quarter earnings release, will be available on our website approximately one hour following this conference call, and a recorded webcast will be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call. Additional information related to our end markets, business segments, geographies, channels, share count and 2021 and 2022 fiscal calendar is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our earnings release and this presentation include certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measures under GAAP are included in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in the Investor Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we will make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding the future events or future financial performance of the company. The words believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intend, may, expect, will, plan, should or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
We wish to caution that such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from projections. Important factors that can affect our business, including factors that could create actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are described in our most recent Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Additional factors are described in our earnings release for the second quarter of 2021. Our estimates or other forward-looking statements may change, and the company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, change assumptions or other events that may occur except as required by law. Our Analyst Day is scheduled for Thursday August 5 in New York City. We look forward to seeing you in person later this week.
Now, let me turn it over to Hassane. Hassane?
Hassane El-Khoury
Thank you, Parag, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We delivered record results in Q2 driven by strong execution and broad-based strength and demand. We posted record revenue of $1.67 billion, an increase of 38% year-over-year and 13% quarter-over-quarter.
The non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.63 grew significantly year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter as a result of the work we have been doing to restructure the company and streamline our business. Our sharp focus on gross margin is beginning to show strong results, with our Q2 non-GAAP gross margin increasing by 320 basis points quarter-over-quarter and by 760 basis points year-over-year.
These sustainable improvements in our gross margin will continue as we rationalize our current portfolio and reallocate R&D investments to high growth and margin accretive new product development. To capture the full value of our products, we continue to evaluate our portfolio to eliminate any price to value discrepancies and focus our manufacturing on our strategic products.
In addition, we continue to drive efficiency throughout our upstream and downstream supply chain and optimize our operations to reduce costs. The demand environment continues to be robust across all end markets. For the second quarter, we posted record revenue for the automotive and industrial end markets. In addition to the company’s broad-based strength in these markets, we are benefiting from the strong traction of our power and sensing products.
The strong demand that we have seen over the last few quarters continue to outpace our ability to supply certain products, especially those manufactured by our foundry partners. Based on current booking trends and macroeconomic outlook, we expect that the demand will continue to outpace supply through the first half of next year.
We are working collaboratively with our customers to ensure the uninterrupted supply of our products in the future, having entered into long-term supply agreements with many of them already and actively engaging in discussions with several others.
Long-term supply agreements or LTSAs are a win-win for both customers and us by guaranteeing supply to the customer, and at the same time, providing better visibility and allowing us to better plan our capital allocation towards capacity expansion with a committed long-term demand outlook.
Let me now discuss a few highlights of our strategic end markets, starting with automotive. We set a new record for our automotive revenue in Q2 with revenue of $556 million. The success in automotive was driven by strength in our power and sensing product categories.
We have emerged as a strategic supplier of highly differentiated technologies for electric vehicles with customers placing high value on the efficiency and footprint advantages provided by our power solutions. Our engagement with leading global OEMs and Tier 1s continues to expand, and I’m very bullish on our potential in the growing vehicle electrification market over the next few years.
In addition to the industry-leading performance of our FETs, the key source of our differentiation is our expertise in packaging, which is critical for improving heat dissipation, increasing power output in a smaller footprint than our closest competitor and reducing the weight and cost of a power module. The efficiency of our module allows our customers to make no trade-offs between the cost of battery and the range of the vehicle, they get both.
We continue to strengthen our leadership in automotive safety with new design wins and see the increased penetration of active safety, features driving strong demand for our image sensors and ultrasonic sensors. In Q2, we secured significant wins for our image sensors on key platforms in Asia, and in a few cases, we displaced the incumbents.
With increasing sensor content, especially in new electric vehicle platforms, we remain bullish on our ADAS business. We recently announced that AutoX has selected our intelligent sensing technologies to enable 360 vision in its Generation 5 Fully Driverless Robo Taxi. On this platform, our 28 image sensors and four 3D LiDAR sensors eliminate blind spots and powerful autonomy.
The industrial end market, which includes military, aerospace and medical, contributed revenue of $434 million in Q2, representing approximately 26% of our revenue. Excluding the impact from geopolitical factors related to a specific customer, our second quarter industrial revenue increased by 29% year-over-year, driven by broad-based demand and strong performance by our power and sensing technology portfolio.
We are seeing continuing momentum for our higher power modules and alternative energy applications given the investments in utility scale solar installations that are expected to grow worldwide to reduce the climate impact of fossil fuel-based power plants.
With a broad range of power solution and early engagement with key market disruptors, we are well-positioned to grow in the market. On the industrial automation front, we saw steep year-over-year growth in our imaging revenue, driven by machine vision and scanning applications.
Now I will turn the call over to Thad to provide additional details on our financial performance and guidance. Thad?
Thad Trent
Thanks, Hassane. I’m pleased to announce a record quarter as we’re seeing the early impact of our transformation initiatives and our financial results. Customer demand remained strong and design win pipeline for our innovative power and sensing technologies continue to expand. We’ve been successful in securing additional supply from our internal manufacturing sites as we optimize our efficiency, which contributed to revenue at the high-end of our guidance.
Based on our current outlook, we expect strength in demand to continue through the first half of 2022. The company has been executing on long-term and sustainable actions that have resulted in record revenue, earnings and free cash flow for the second quarter. In a few days, at our Analyst Day, we will share our long-term strategy and operational plans to realize the full potential of the company.
So turning to results for the quarter. We saw broad-based strength contributing to sequential revenue growth across all end markets, regions and business units. Secular megatrends in automotive and industrial contributed to record revenue in both of these end markets and together comprised 59% of revenue.
Total revenue for the second quarter was $1.67 billion, an increase of 38% over the second quarter of 2020 and 13% quarter-over-quarter versus normal seasonality and a sequential increase of 3% to 5%. Our automotive revenue grew 69% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. Industrial revenue grew 24% year-over-year and 18% sequentially.
Turning to the business units. Revenue for the Power Solutions Group or PSG was $846.6 million. PSG revenue increased by 37% year-over-year due to strength in automotive and industrial end markets. Revenue for the Advanced Solutions Group, or ASG, was $607.6 million, an increase of 42% year-over-year.
In addition to the strength in automotive, ASG benefited from strength in computing, especially in high-end graphics card. Revenue for the Intelligent Sensing Group, or ISG, in the second quarter was $215.7 million, an increase of 28% year-over-year. Strength in ISG was driven primarily by automotive.
GAAP gross margin for the second quarter was 38.3% and non-GAAP gross margin was 38.4%, a 760 basis point improvement year-over-year and 320 basis point improvement sequentially. Our strong gross margin performance over the last few quarters has been driven by strong execution, a favorable mix to higher-margin products, improved efficiencies in our manufacturing sites and cost containment initiatives across the company.
Our factory utilization was 83%, which was relatively consistent with Q1 at 84%. As we move forward, our fab lighter strategy will allow us to continue to reduce on the manufacturing footprint and overall cost structure, while increasing capacity to support the demand of our customers.
GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.42 per diluted share. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.63 per diluted share as compared to $0.12 per share in the second quarter of 2020 and $0.35 in Q1. As noted earlier, this is the highest ever quarterly non-GAAP EPS reported by the company.
Now let me give you some additional numbers for your models. GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter of 2021 was $357.9 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses was $314.2 million, a decline of $10.5 million quarter-over-quarter as we continue to see the favorable impact of our cost reduction initiatives launched in Q1.
Our GAAP operating margin for the second quarter was 16.9% as compared to 3.6% in the second quarter of 2020. Our non-GAAP operating margin was at the highest level since 2010 coming in at 19.6% as compared to 7.4% in the second quarter of 2020 and 13.3% in Q1.
Our GAAP diluted share count was 443.6 million shares and our non-GAAP diluted share count was 435 million shares. Please note, we have included an updated reference table on the Investor Relations section of our website to assist you with calculating our diluted share count at various share prices.
So turning to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents was $1.09 million and we had -- sorry, $1.09 billion and we had $1.97 billion undrawn on our revolver. Cash from operations was $488 million and free cash flow was $383 million or 23% of revenue. 
Capital expenditures during the quarter of 2021 was $104.8 million, which equates to a capital intensity of 6.3%. As we indicated previously, we are directing a significant portion of our capital expenditures towards enabling our 300 millimeter capabilities at our East Fishkill fab.
Accounts receivable was $669 million resulting in DSO of 37 days. Inventory increased $13.8 million sequentially to $1.31 billion and days of inventory decreased 8 days to 116 days. Distribution weeks of inventory decreased again by $42.6 million to 7.3 weeks from 8.4 weeks in Q1, which is below our target range of 11 to 13 weeks.
Once again, we are proactively reducing the distribution inventory to hold more inventory on our balance sheet to support our customer needs rather than building inventory in the supply chain. Total debt was $3.3 billion and we paid down $140 million in the quarter.
So turning to guidance for the third quarter. A table detailing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance is provided in the press release related to our second quarter results. Let me now provide you with the key elements of our non-GAAP guidance for the third quarter. As mentioned, we believe demand will remain strong for the remainder of the year. Although we continue to increase our supply through operational efficiencies, we will be limited by supply constraints and are working with our strategic customers to provide long-term support.
Based on current booking trends, backlog levels, we anticipate the revenue for the third quarter will be in the range of $1.66 billion to $1.76 billion. We expect gross margin between 39% to 41%, and this includes share-based compensation of $3.7 million. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses of $305 million to $320 million, and this includes share-based compensation of $19.2 million.
We anticipate our non-GAAP OIE including interest expense will be $26 million to $29 million. So this results in non-GAAP earnings per share in the range of $0.68 to $0.80. We expect capital expenditures of $100 million to $110 million in the third quarter of 2021, and our non-GAAP diluted share count is expected to be in the range of 436 million shares.
So, in summary, I’m extremely pleased with our early progress and the execution of our transformation initiatives. I add my thanks to our worldwide teams for their hard work and unwavering commitment to our customers. And I look forward to seeing you all at our Analyst Day in New York in a few days.
With that, I will turn the call back over to the operator to open the line for Q&A.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Ross Seymore
Hi, guys. Thanks. Let me ask a few questions. Congrats on the results. Hassane, I want to talk a little bit about the demand and the shortage commentary you had. I believe last quarter, you thought that the demand would kind of stabilize, the velocity might -- the increase might slow, but shortages would abate in the second half of the year. It seems like you've pushed that out into the first half of next year. So I guess, what's changed with any color on the demand side? And how can you be confident that there's no double ordering within that?
Hassane El-Khoury
Sure. That's a good question. Look, the demand environment as we've always stated, it's very dynamic. We see it basically pushing out into the first half of next year. That's based on -- our backlog based on customer interactions, and really based on the LTSA that we have been engaging with on customers either signed or in active engagement.
Now as far as the double ordering, we're managing our supply chain to make sure that doesn't happen as far as having it in the channel. So we have been reducing and managing inventory very closely. That keeps the inventory on our balance sheet, but allows us to serve strategic customers as we see the demand from the end customer without really accounting for any, call it, buffer stocking that you may or may not see in the distribution channel or anywhere in between us and OEM.
So that's how we're managing, call it, tactical. But that's what we need to do right now to make sure that we're not going to suffer from the double ordering. So that gives me the confidence given the numbers of inventory that have been reducing and building up on our balance sheet that we are literally tackling end demand one-to-one basis with our direct customers.
Ross Seymore
Thanks for that color, Hassane. I guess as my follow-up for either you or Thad. On the gross margin side of things, that's probably the most impressive line, given where ON has been historically and the challenges it face. Can you just talk a little bit about what drove the upside even to your guidance in the second quarter, similarly for the third quarter? And a higher level question, how much of that do you believe is structural versus just you guys benefiting from some pretty strong cyclical tailwinds that as we've learned in the past can come and go at different times?
Hassane El-Khoury
Yes. I mean, if you look at the components of the gross margin strength, obviously, we -- we've always said in the first and second quarter now, we have probably thousands of line items that we are structurally working on improving our operation and streamlining our business. That's going to drive gross margin expansion. Those have been firing on all cylinders and we are seeing the benefit incrementally, and you're going to see that in our guide for Q3.
So those I would call structural. If you look at utilization, utilization has been flagged from last quarter. But you see a big gross margin jump that also is what I would call structural. It's not really tied to utilization per se because utilization is flat. So the jump from Q1 to Q2 is on all the other work that we have been doing.
So we continue to streamline our operation, take cost out of our products, and portfolio mix and portfolio rationalization, a couple of quarters ago, I was asked if that would be delayed because of the demand environment. My commentary has been, it's actually going to be accelerated because it's going to force us to shift faster to our strategic products that will drive higher margin. So you're seeing some of that portfolio mix happening earlier than we anticipated. So all of these components will tell you that it is structural, it is sustainable and forward looking. I'm very bullish on the capability of our gross margin expansion.
Ross Seymore
Thank you.
Thad Trent
Yes. I would just -- I think [Technical Difficulty] Hassane. I think if you look at the upside compared to our guidance, we were able to get more supply out of our manufacturing sites. And then, obviously, we're getting favorable mix out of that as well, which is helping with the gross margin. But absolutely agree, it's structural changes that we're making inside the company.
Ross Seymore
Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from Charles Danely (sic) [Chris Danely] from Citigroup. Your line is open.
Chris Danely
I think you got the wrong name, but I'll speak up for my unborn son name Charles. It's Chris. Hey, guys. Can you just be a little more specific on the gross margin drivers. Was there any pricing involved? Are you cutting specific product lines? It's just a big jump given that utilization rates didn't do anything. Any specifics there would be great?
Hassane El-Khoury
Yes. I mean, it's spread across the board. Of course, there is some, what I referred to the price to value discrepancy. So we have been looking at our pricing from a strategic perspective, what products and what pricing they need to be in the market to extract the value that we provide for our customers. Cost is a big factor, not just product costs, but supply chain costs, upstream and downstream supply chain costs. Some of the increases that we’ve seen we pass those on to customers, as I've described them in prior calls.
So it's really -- Chris, it's across the board. There's not a big step function that I would anchor on, because when we look at incrementally, it came from all of these swimlanes that we have been launched and working on since -- really, since the December timeframe.
When I came in, I said, we're structuring gross margin. I have a specific owner in the company that drives gross margin improvements for the company. And we have about, call it, a 1,000 swimlanes that we are delivering to, and those are starting to come out now because it takes time to get those through the supply chain, and now is the quarter where we see it. And they're going to continue in the forward-looking quarters as well, given the Q3 guidance range.
Chris Danely
Great. And then for my follow-up, you mentioned you expect the shortages to extend into next year. Can you just talk about where your lead times are these days? Or what they did sequentially? Did they extend during the quarter? Were they flat up or down?
Thad Trent
Yes, Chris, the last quarter, our lead times were in the low 30 range. It's now up to about 42 this quarter, they've gone up by about 10 weeks sequentially. Obviously, we're working on that, but that's another reason that’s giving us on and giving us more visibility about why we see the supply constraint being limited as we look forward.
Chris Danely
Great. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from Vivek Arya from Bank of America. Your line is open.
Vivek Arya
Thanks for taking my question, and congratulations on the gross margin, and especially the free cash flow improvement. My first question, Hassane, is that investors are trying to grapple with the situation where, as you mentioned, demand is strong. But will the supply environment stay disciplined? So the specific question is, how undersupplied is the industry right now?
And you mentioned the situation could persist until the first half? Is that based on demand level staying at current levels or what they could be next year? Just basically what are your views about the supply response from ON and your peer group to give investors the comfort that the supply response from the industry is not going to change this very strong discipline and the pricing dynamic that your industry is benefiting from right now?
Hassane El-Khoury
Yes, that's a good question. I can really speak for [indiscernible] and what we're doing here. Of course, the fear is the reaction, you go and build capacity or across the board. But if you look at what we are doing specifically, and why I'm comfortable with the forward looking view of our margin, and our posture really with the gross margin expansion is we are selectively adding capacity, where we see the growth and our strategic products forward looking. So we're not adding capacity for the sake of adding capacity. We are first shifting from a lot of what we call the legacy portfolio and to the strategic growth and adding capacity there.
So as we are increasing our top line, given the supply relief that we're getting through our supply chain, those are coming from strategic growth products. So when I look at our strategic plans moving forward, and we'll give a little bit more color at Analyst Day, that's where we're expanding the capacity. It is not equal for all. So there are demand signals on our -- in our visibility to our customers that we are not servicing beyond what we can today. So I'm not adding capacity there. We are selective. We're very, very disciplined on where we add capacity, and we're adding it in our growth products that are strategic and those will be driving the gross margin forward looking. So very selective, not the shotgun approach.
Vivek Arya
Got it. And for my follow-up actually a clarification question. On the clarification side, any impact from shutdowns or COVID related issues in Southeast Asia from supply side? And then, Hassane you sound really very confident about ON's prospects in the electrification side. So could you help us understand what is your current exposure to EVs? And what kind of content growth do you see both on the powertrain and the ADAS side as the industry moves more towards EVs? Thank you.
Hassane El-Khoury
So, let me answer the EV first. Our exposure, obviously, this is starting to grow, I'm very bullish. I'm not going to -- I can't even hide it. So I'm glad you really picked it up. So, I'm very bullish with our posture, both on the automotive safety and electrification. Electrification penetration is starting to pick up. We're well-positioned with strategic OEMs directly, but also through their Tier 1 supply chain.
So that is really forward looking, how I look at the market and really where our R&D investments are happening. If you recall, we did a big restructure at the beginning of the year, that's moving R&D and capacity and capital into those markets. Because I see the design wins, I have personally engaged with customers, we have LCSH, as it relates to vehicle electrification, all of these make me very bullish, but more importantly, very excited on the potential of ON in these markets.
For your question about the COVID disruption, yes, we've seen -- we have seen disruption related to COVID in some of our supply chain, direct or indirect. But back to the demand environment, I think our operations and our manufacturing teams were wide, we were able to really redirect and service more demand by shifting the mix again. So there was disruption. We overcome that disruption. And now we're back on track. So let's call it a blip that we were able to sustain given the demand and given the work that we're doing on releasing more capacity.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Toshiya Hari
Good morning. Thanks so much for taking the questions and congrats on the strong results. Hassane, I had a two-part question on gross margin. You talked about addressing price to value discrepancies. Just curious, what percentage of discrepancies have you been able to execute on in the form of price increases? And how much left is there to go? Guessing your tenure at ON, I'm guessing it's still very early innings. But curious how much is left? And then as my second part, in terms of the 300 millimeter transition, again, I believe it's very early in the process. But how do you see that evolving over the next couple of years and the impact on gross margins? Thank you.
Hassane El-Khoury
Sure. So the first question as it relates to price value, obviously, this is an ongoing effort. I would put it under the portfolio rationalization overall. So I don't break it out because of price or because of the shift, because all of those are material. If you start moving the ship to high value products, without touching the price that's going to impact the value you provide to customers. So I would say, like you mentioned, we're not done yet. That's a continuous improvement. Everywhere we look, there's opportunity. And more importantly, it's the momentum that the company is getting. If you think about it the first couple of quarters, I have been pushing a lot of that from the top. Right now it's part of our culture, it's part of how the teams are thinking about pricing strategies from new products and moving forward. So it's not a blip in time where oh, because of that environment, we're able to extract the value, it is structurally how we're moving forward. So new products are not going to be having those issues of price to value discrepancies, because we are pricing the new products and delivering the new products exactly at the value they provide customers. So that’s really how I look at it. Does that help?
Toshiya Hari
It does. And then the 300 millimeter transition? And -- sorry, as my follow-up, just on the OpEx side of things, I think you came in below the low end of your range for Q2, roughly 19% of sales. And then for Q3 your guidance implies an OpEx to sales ratio of around 18%. That compares with the prior management teams long-term target of 21%. So just curious, is 18% sort of the new normal, is it going to be a little bit higher, a little bit lower. Any thoughts on OpEx going forward would be helpful as well. Thanks.
Hassane El-Khoury
Sure. So on the 300 millimeter, obviously it's a strategic asset. We have been working with Globalfoundries under our transition. We have not taken ownership of that fab yet. However, we're working very closely on starting to move volume into that fab. So when we take ownership, we hit the ground running and that, of course, is going to be supportive of our gross margin efforts from a product cost perspective. Where we are there, we're on track. I review this regularly as far as how many products have we qualified in the 300 millimeter fab, but more importantly, the customers that have qualified that fab for us to be able to ramp with them over '22 and into '23. So that's all on track. I'm happy with the progress, so that asset is going to be favorable for us in the long run, both from a capacity but also from a cost structure. And I will let Thad comment on the OpEx.
Thad Trent