Qorvo, Inc. (NASDAQ:QRVO) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call November  4, 2020  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Douglas DeLieto - VP, IR
Robert Bruggeworth - President, CEO & Director
Mark Murphy - CFO
Steven Creviston - Corporate VP & President, Mobile Products
James Klein - Corporate VP and President, Infrastructure & Defense Products
Conference Call Participants
Karl Ackerman - Cowen and Company
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs Group
Bill Peterson - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Harsh Kumar - Piper Sandler & Co.
Gary Mobley - Wells Fargo Securities
Craig Hettenbach - Morgan Stanley
Edward Snyder - Charter Equity Research
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Qorvo, Inc. Q2 2021 Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. 
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Douglas DeLieto, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
Douglas DeLieto
Thanks very much. Hello, everybody, and welcome to Qorvo's Fiscal 2021 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release published today as well as the risk factors associated with our business in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC because these risk factors may affect our operations and financial results. 
In today's release and on today's call, we provide both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results. We provide this supplemental information to enable investors to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to analyze financial performance about the impact of certain noncash expenses or other items that may obscure trends in our underlying performance. 
During our call, our comments and comparisons to income statement items will be based primarily on non-GAAP results. For complete reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to our earnings release issued earlier today available on our website at qorvo.com under Investors. 
Joining us today are Bob Bruggeworth, President and CEO; Mark Murphy, Chief Financial Officer; James Klein, President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group; and Eric Creviston, President of Qorvo's Mobile Products Group; as well as other members of Qorvo's management team. 
And with that, I'll turn it over to Bob.
Robert Bruggeworth
Thank you, Doug, and thanks to everyone for joining our call. In our second fiscal quarter, Qorvo outperformed our updated guidance on revenue, gross margin and EPS. Strength was broad-based across customers and supported by multiyear technology upgrade cycles. Both businesses had strong year-over-year growth, supported by new product launches, 5G and WiFi 6. 
In Mobile Products, the transition of 5G is fueling a shift from discrete products to higher-value content, including integrated modules in flagship and mass market 5G smartphones. Driving growth, Qorvo is leveraging our deep technology portfolio and pursuing opportunities throughout the front end, at the antenna, in the main path, in the diversity path and across the frequency spectrum. 
At the antenna, the introduction of new bands and band combinations is creating significant design challenges for OEMs. Qorvo solves these challenges with a range of products, including an expanding portfolio of antennaplexers. In the September quarter, we increased volume shipments of our BAW-based antennaplexers solutions to multiple Tier 1 OEM smartphone manufacturers. 
In the main path, Qorvo's highly integrated 5G solutions include low-band, mid-/high-band and ultra-high-band modules. Customer design activity has been robust, and we expect our main path solutions to grow across customers as demand for integrated solutions expands throughout the high-volume mid-tier. In September, we expanded shipments of our complete main path solutions across multiple Tier 1 Android smartphone OEMs. 

In the diversity path, the adoption of dual transmit architectures is creating new requirements for integrated transmit and receive filtering. This is especially meaningful for Qorvo because our dual connectivity modules leverage many of the technology advantages we enjoy in the main path, including high-performance BAW multiplexing. 
We said previously, we anticipate approximately 250 million 5G smartphones in calendar '20, with that number approximately doubling in 2021, and that remains our view. In ultra-wideband, we see adoption in smartphones as the catalyst for a broad ecosystem of connected devices. Similar to Bluetooth, smartphones will be the hub, connecting to multiple peripherals. The technology will enhance how we interact with our media, lighting, appliances, automobiles, digital wallets and a range of other applications in and out of the home. It will also transform how we locate equipment and production pieces on the factory floor, even how we interact with coworkers. 
In the September quarter, we acquired 7Hugs Labs, a pioneer in ultra-wideband software and system solutions to enhance our capabilities in UWB solutions and accelerate adoption across mobile, IoT and automotive ecosystems. The combination of our hardware technology with their software expertise positions Qorvo to accelerate the development of broad ultra-wideband ecosystem expected to reach billions of devices in the coming years. 
7Hugs brings a highly skilled team with vast experience in UWB applications and a portfolio of intellectual property. We're excited to welcome them at Qorvo to build on their success and accelerate growth in ultra-wideband. We also signed a partnership with a leading design services company, Sigma Connectivity, to develop advanced UWB solutions and assist customers in the creation of breakthrough applications, leveraging the unique capabilities of UWB. 
For wide area applications like asset tracking, Qorvo enables long-range, low-data rate connectivity via cellular IoT. We offer a broad portfolio of discrete solutions as well as highly integrated modules for CAT-M and narrowband IoT through our partnership with Nordic Semiconductor. In WiFi 6, we enjoyed broad-based content gains across both businesses in support of the leading suppliers of smartphones, tablets, mesh networks, gateways, smart speakers and virtual reality headsets. 
Before turning to IDP, Qorvo was recently granted a license to ship certain mobile products to Huawei. Our December guidance currently contemplates no Huawei revenue as we work with the customer to understand the impact on the license. 
Now turning to IDP. Wireless connectivity revenue more than doubled year-over-year. WiFi revenue was broad-based across products and customers and supported by the rollout of WiFi 6. Customer demand for our front-end modules and BAW filters was especially strong in support of CPE and retail applications. 
Looking more closely at content opportunities, our shipments to the leading connected home platform provider included WiFi 6 FEMs, BAW filters and multi-protocol SoCs. Also for next-generation WiFi gateway, we were awarded the entire RF band in support of the leading North American multiple system operator or MSO, including the 2.5 and 5 gigahertz FEMs and a variety of filter products. The FCC recently approved new spectrum for WiFi 6E, and Qorvo is actively supporting leading OEMs in the design of 6E platforms. WiFi 6E will continue to increase the capacity and lower the latency of next-generation platforms, creating a new class of products and applications. 
In defense and aerospace, Qorvo was the exclusive RF recipient of the multiyear U.S. government SHIP program, recognizing our leadership in advanced semiconductor packaging. This program will continue to advance the state-of-the-art in packaging targeted towards a broad range of applications. Also of note, we advanced the performance of defense phased radars with 150-watt 2.9 to 3.5 gigahertz power amplifier using our industry-leading GaN process. 

In power management, growth was driven by the transition of solid-state storage in client devices such as laptops and enterprise computing and data centers. Demand has also been strong for our motor control products as brushless motor technology continues to gain share in a broad range of consumer products. Our Programmable Power Management business is performing very well across diverse markets as we help customers enhance product performance, reduce weight, improve reliability and bring market -- bring products to market faster. 
In automotive, we began sampling a second-generation automotive cellular V2X FEM that integrates the PA, LNA, switch and BAW coexistence filter to solve critical system-level challenges. In wireless infrastructure, we were awarded multiple design wins in support of 5G massive MIMO deployments, expanding our customer base for GaN amplifiers. Within that, we commenced shipments of GaN amplifiers supporting massive MIMO C-band base station deployments first in the U.S. and then other regions globally. We also launched high-performance BAW filters for Band 41, 5G small cells and repeaters to help enable 5G and WiFi coexistence. 
Next calendar year, we see continued year-over-year growth on global 5G deployments. The deployment of 5G base stations and the upgrade to 5G smartphones are expected to span multiple years. In IDP, our 5G growth drivers include content gains in small-signal devices and GaN PAs in massive MIMO, and the adoption of GaN PAs in macro base station deployments. Before handing the call over to Mark, I want to thank the Qorvo team for a standout performance in a tough environment. Our design teams are releasing best-in-class products. Our application engineering and sales teams are engaging closely with customers to solve their most complex RF challenges, and our global operations team continues to excel. I'm extremely proud of the team for their outstanding efforts and ongoing commitment to our customers' success. 
And with that, I'll hand the call over to Mark.
Mark Murphy
Thanks, Bob, and good afternoon, everyone. Qorvo's revenue for the fiscal '21 second quarter was $1.060 billion, $45 million above the midpoint of our updated guidance provided on September 8. Following our updated guidance, customer demand continued to strengthen, and we were able to support some of that demand within the quarter. 
Mobile Products revenue of $754 million exceeded our expectations, driven by seasonal demand effects and the ramp of 5G smartphones. Infrastructure and defense products revenue of $306 million was down sequentially as expected but up strongly year-over-year in support of the ongoing buildout of 5G networks and the deployment of WiFi 6. As a reminder, our fiscal year 2021 is a 53-week fiscal year, and our September quarter was a 14-week quarter versus a typical 13-week quarter. Our last 14-week quarter occurred in the period ended October 3, 2015, during our fiscal '16, which was the last 53-week fiscal year reported. 
Non-GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was 51.7%, which was above our updated guidance due to better-than-expected mix and favorable manufacturing cost variances. Our efforts to improve the portfolio, drive productivity and carefully manage inventories continue to yield favorable results. Non-GAAP operating expenses in the second quarter were $219 million, higher sequentially on the additional week, incentive compensation and other labor costs. Non-GAAP net income in the second quarter was $282 million, and diluted earnings per share of $2.43 was $0.29 above our updated September guidance. 
Cash flow from operations in the September quarter was $281 million, and CapEx was $44 million, yielding free cash flow of $237 million. We repurchased $105 million of shares during the quarter. During the quarter, we took steps to reduce our cost of debt and further improve our financial flexibility. We renewed our unsecured credit facility at more favorable terms and extended it to 2025. We also increased our term loan to $200 million and raised $700 million through a new issue of unsecured notes maturing in 2031. After the quarter closed, these proceeds and cash on hand were used to pay down our notes maturing in 2026. Today, our debt balance is under $1.8 billion, and cash is approximately $1.1 billion. Our leverage remains low. Our revolver is untapped. The weighted average maturity of our debt is 2029, and we have no material near-term maturities. 

With our financial flexibility, we can focus on advancing technology, supporting customers and making prudent organic and inorganic investments that support long-term earnings and free cash flow growth. To that end, we acquired 7Hugs Labs in the second quarter to support the ongoing development and adoption of our ultra-wideband products and solutions. This acquisition enhances Qorvo's software capabilities and is an important step in realizing the potential of UWB. 
We see a wide array of applications emerging with ultra-wideband technology and have significant customer engagement on the design of new products and solutions. We expect UWB to contribute meaningfully to Qorvo over time. Turning to our current quarter outlook. We expect revenue of approximately $1.060 billion plus or minus $15 million, non-GAAP gross margin of approximately 52.5% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.65 at the midpoint of guidance. 
Our December quarter revenue outlook reflects seasonal demand effects and demand for multiyear technology upgrade cycles. In Mobile, demand for 5G is adding RF complexity and driving higher content, and we forecast Mobile revenue in the current quarter to be approximately $790 million. We suspended shipments to Huawei in mid-September in accordance with Department of Commerce regulations. And although we've since received a license for certain mobile products, we've assumed no sales to Huawei in our current outlook. 
In IDP, we project revenue of approximately $270 million in the current quarter, reflecting the timing of base station deployments. We forecast IDP to sustain strong double-digit year-over-year growth through the balance of the fiscal year with this infrastructure demand picking up in the March quarter. We expect continued strength in defense, WiFi and power management due to durable underlying trends. While considerable economic uncertainty remains with the ongoing effects of the pandemic, currently, we expect end market demand to support full fiscal year double-digit revenue growth for Qorvo. 
Our December quarter gross margin guide of approximately 52.5% reflects volume growth and ongoing efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of our business. Specifically, we've invested early and adequately in the technologies that markets need, focused our product portfolio on where we can best serve customers, gained productivity across our operations and reduced our capital intensity. We believe our work to keep our inventories and cost structure low will help us sustain over 50% gross margin through the balance of the year, fiscal year. Non-GAAP operating expenses are projected to decrease in the December quarter to around $205 million as we return to a normal fiscal quarter length and other personnel costs decrease. We expect other expense to decrease to under $20 million on lower net interest costs. We project our current quarter and full year non-GAAP tax rate to be at or below 8%. We still project capital expenditures to remain below $200 million in fiscal '21 and focus on areas that advance a differentiated position for Qorvo to best serve customer needs such as BAW and GaN. Currently, we expect free cash flow to be approximately $900 million this fiscal year. 
As of September quarter results and our December quarter outlook show, Qorvo continues to operate well through a challenging period while serving customers in 5G infrastructure and smartphones, WiFi, IoT, defense and other growth markets. 
In closing, I'd like to join Bob in thanking Qorvo employees for their continued efforts during this time. 
Now I'll turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. We'll take our first question from Karl Ackerman with Cowen and Company.

Karl Ackerman
Very solid results. I guess for my first question, I know you're having a record year for IDP, and it's great to see the sustained margin improvement. I know you don't provide a quantitative outlook beyond 1 quarter, but I was hoping you could talk about the opportunities you have in IDP next year and perhaps whether you think that segment can grow year-over-year.
James Klein
Yes. Karl, this is James. Thanks for the question. I think the underlying trends for the business are where we said they've been for the last several quarters. We've got a great position in 5G with the rollout of massive MIMO, with the adoption of GaN and the adoption of higher frequencies. I think those are all very good trends for us, and we've got great momentum coming out of this first year of deployments, predominantly in China. 
WiFi 6 continues to roll out. We've had a string of record quarters for that part of the business. And again, I expect that to continue. And as Bob mentioned, we see 6E coming right at the end of that string of results and really allows for another opportunity to update hardware. 
And then our defense business just continues to provide a very solid base to the business with really some of the same underlying trends that we've seen before with the adoption of GaN and phased-array antennas coming to play in that market. So overall, I think we're positioned very well for the business to continue on this 10% to 15% trend that we've been on for several years.
Karl Ackerman
Very helpful. And if I may, for my follow-up, you have a record amount of cash on the balance sheet, and you're going to generate record free cash flow this year. Your recent capital allocation priorities have centered on IP-focused M&A. What are your thoughts on buybacks and/or perhaps a dividend given your robust multiyear outlook?
Mark Murphy
Karl, this is Mark. No change in our capital allocation message. We have -- our primary source of capital return has been share repurchase, which, as you can see, we did about 44% of our free cash flow this quarter. If you remember, we were -- since we're doing an updated guide, and we were also on the capital markets, we had periods of the quarter we were unable to repurchase outside of the 10b5-1. So -- but we still view share repurchase as our capital return source. 
To your broader question on our capital returns overall, we've -- I want to point out that we reached a milestone this quarter, and that the last 12 months, free cash flow margin of the business reached about 25%, which is noteworthy in our view. And we've generated about $860 million of free cash over the last 12 months. We've deployed about $700 million of that to acquisitions, and we've repurchased over $400 million worth of stock. So we've deployed $1.1 billion on $860 million of free cash. 
And then the last six quarters, we've deployed even more. We've generated $1.2 billion of cash. We've bought about $1 billion worth of companies, and we've repurchased about $700 million worth of stock. And since inception, we've returned to shareholders 113% of our free cash flow or $3.1 billion at an average price of $63. So we've had a successful capital return plan, and we continue to look at acquisitions. We've done 5 now in the past 6 quarters. We continue to look at where it makes sense, in markets, customers, technology. As you've mentioned, we've been focused on bolt-ons, which we've done 2 bolt-ons for James' business and technology additions, which we've done 3 of those. And we're feeling very good about what we've done, the capital we've deployed and have a lot of confidence going forward. 
Of the five that we've done over the past 1.5 years, we feel very strongly they serve important and growing markets. We've been able to integrate them very quickly, and the teams are thriving within Qorvo. They're performing as or better than expected. 

And then finally, we're -- as you can see from the 7Hugs, we're investing in the assets we've acquired. So feeling good about both deploying capital inorganically and then feel our capital return has been strong to shareholders.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs.
Toshiya Hari
Congratulations on the very strong results. I had 2 as well. For my first question, I wanted to ask on the ultra-wideband opportunity long term. Mark, I think it was you, you talked about contribution from this business potentially being meaningful over the long run. Just for context, how big could this business be over the next, call it, 2 to 3 years as a percentage of Qorvo's revenue? And how are you thinking about the relative size of revenue contribution between mobile, IoT and automotive? And then I've got a quick follow-up.
Steven Creviston
Yes. Thanks, Toshiya. This is Eric. Just to talk about ultra-wideband, how big it could be, we haven't really set public numbers for what the internal revenue for ultra-wideband might be. But as you know, there's very few players in the area, and the Decawave team that we've acquired really pioneered the latest version of ultra-wideband, the impulse radio type, which is what gives it the capability of proximity awareness and internal navigation and so forth. So we see those as being the key real opportunities for ultra-wideband going forward. 
And as Mark said, we think that proliferation in the mobile phone will become sort of the infrastructure of the hub for many, many applications like consumer IoT, smart home. Of course, automotive, you will access your car from your phone. And even in industrial IoT applications as well there'll be opportunities there. So it's just a very target-rich environment. And we have said that we expect within 4 years, kind of in calendar '24, it's somewhere between 2 billion and 4 billion units. Again, very limited number of people supplying that market. 
We think we have the broadest approach to the solution. We have the ability to not only serve the mobile phone but all the accessories that talk to the mobile phone as well as automotive and all the industrial IoT verticals. So we're really excited about the capability and the growth prospects for the business, for sure.
Robert Bruggeworth
Toshi, as far as IoT revenues, they're very meaningful, but we have not broken those out, but it is sizable and growing very nicely. We're very pleased with that. And our automotive business today is reasonable size but also growing very nicely and should grow substantially over the next few years.
Toshiya Hari
Got it. And then, Mark, as my follow-up on gross margins, great job here. And then, I guess, into the December quarter, you're guiding margins, I think, up 80 basis points sequentially despite IDP revenue being down, which should be a headwind for mix. What are some of the puts and takes in terms of gross margins in the quarter? And I guess more importantly, going forward, I think you talked about sustaining 50% or higher in the back half. But when you think about gross margins on a multiyear basis, where is the ceiling? Or where's the potential for Qorvo given some of the initiatives in place?
Mark Murphy
So Toshi, as it relates to the December quarter gross margin, as you mentioned, we're forecasting 52.5%, so 80 basis points up. You're correct in that we've got an increased mobile mix, but there are many forms of mix, one of which is product mix. So we've got some favorability there. About half of that 80 basis points is actually mix effects. 
The other half is manufacturing costs continue to be a tailwind for us and just outstanding performance by the ops team. We've got higher volumes, of course, which is helping us on absorption, but we've also had very good test yields, which we forecast to improve. And then we've had excellent spend control. And then -- and all these things have been contributing. We expect that to continue to help us in the December quarter. 

Since I am talking -- before I talk to a longer-term margin trend, Toshiya, I'll mention that we do expect -- as you see in our business sometimes, we do expect gross margins to decline actually in the March quarter. Some of that will be mix effects. We expect lower volumes in the March quarter. So we'll have some absorption effects and then -- and some other factors. And we expect gross margins to go down about 150 basis points or so from the third quarter to the fourth quarter. 
Longer term, we continue to -- we've -- it's taken us a number of years to sort of get things aligned in the company. And I would go back to the merger where there was a recognition that we needed to get the best-in-class technologies and the ability to scale them to serve what was going to be a multiyear technology trend, and we're here. So it started from efforts to invest in the right technologies. We had several years of working on the right portfolio of products. And then we also had several years of getting the operations in order and driving productivity, rightsizing the footprint and then being very diligent or more circumspect about capital spend, which continues to trend down as a percent of sales, we've been able to reduce our capital intensity. 
So a multi-disciplined effort within the company, and we're going to continue to do those things. We still have room in the fab network -- factory network to expand volume, so we could still get better absorption. Paul and his team are doing a remarkable job on productivity, driving -- still doing 6- to 8-inch conversions in BAW, 4- to 6-inch in GaN. Micro-BAW has been introduced and is growing as a share of our products. And again, excellent job on cycle times, spend control and a raft of other productivity projects. So -- and then finally, we're leveraging our supply chain partners better. 
So when you add all those things, premium technology portfolio, active product portfolio management, driving productivity throughout the org and then reducing the capital intensity of the business, we think we're going to be able to sustain or expand gross margins as we go forward beyond fiscal '21.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Bill Peterson with JPMorgan.
Bill Peterson
Nice job on the quarterly execution and guide. I'd like to try to understand where you saw upside in September. At the time you preannounced, you cited better smartphone demand. You called it pretty broad-based, but that even appears to have come in better than expectations. I guess how broad across the 6 major smartphone customers you have, including Huawei? Where do you see the upside there? I think you also saw a little bit of upside in IDP relative to your expectations. 
And I guess looking at December, compared to your prior view of somewhat flattish and now you're calling for some nice mobile growth, what's driving that upside relative to your prior view? Is that coming from -- I guess is Android still sequentially increasing like it did in September? If you can help us understand the upside, that would be great.
Robert Bruggeworth
Thanks, Bill. It's Bob, and I appreciate your questions. As far as the upside, after we gave the guidance in early September, it was broad-based, but it was not Huawei. And I've said that, I think, in a couple of other public forums. And it was broad-based across our other 5 customers that you said the big 6. Huawei was not one of them during that period. 
We saw a little bit of upside in IDP. And as James pointed out, our WiFi business is doing extremely well. And that was a little bit of that and a little bit of defense, a little bit here and there. But overall, business is running extremely well. And our operations team did a good job of keeping up with some of that demand. So real pleased with that. Eric, do you want to take the second part of Bill's question there?

Steven Creviston
Yes. Looking into December and that strength, it's again not Huawei, as we said. But other than that, it's really pretty broad-based across Android as well as iOS. But also within Android, China is still continuing to look very strong. We're still in the very early innings of the 5G rollout, and there's a lot of subs there. So it's really fairly broad-based in the current view.
Bill Peterson
Yes. And I guess maybe the second question for James, and I think earlier you said that the 5G infrastructure should start to improve after December. But I guess for the composite of the business, assuming you have better visibility across areas like defense and longer-term opportunities, how should we think about the seasonality of that business? Should we assume WiFi still sustains into the first half of next year based off work-from-home trends and other factors? Just trying to get a feel for how you see that business trending here in the next couple of quarters.
James Klein
Yes. Thanks for the question, Bill. As Mark said last quarter, and I think we're tracking pretty close to that, you'll see us -- Q3, we've already said 270. I think Q4 will be very similar to the mark -- to the range that Mark talked about last quarter. And then we'll see t