Qorvo, Inc. (NASDAQ:QRVO) Q2 2022 Results Conference Call November  4, 2021  5:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Bob Bruggeworth – President and Chief Executive Officer
Mark Murphy – Chief Financial Officer
Eric Creviston – President of Qorvo's Mobile Products Group
Philip Chesley – Incoming President, Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group
James Klein – Outgoing President, Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group
Douglas Delieto – Vice President, Investor Relations
Conference Call Participants
Toshiya Hari – Goldman Sachs
Vivek Arya – Bank of America
Blayne Curtis – Barclays
Karl Ackerman – Cowen and Company
Gary Mobley – Wells Fargo Securities
Edward Snyder – Charter Equity Research
Christopher Rolland – Susquehanna
Dennis – Needham & Company
Ambrish Srivastava – BMO Capital Markets
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Qorvo Inc. Q2 2022 conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Douglas DeLieto, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Douglas Delieto
Thanks very much, Todd. Hello everybody, and welcome to Qorvo's Fiscal '22 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from management's current expectations. 
We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release published today as well as the risk factors associated with our business in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission because these risk factors may affect our operations and financial results. In today's release and on today's call, we provide GAAP and non-GAAP financial results. 
We provide this supplemental information to enable investors to perform additional comparisons of operating results and to analyze financial performance without the impact of certain non-cash expenses or other items that may obscure trends in our underlying performance. 
During our call, our comments and comparisons to income statement items will be based primarily on non-GAAP results. For a complete reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to our earnings release issued earlier today, available on our website at Qorvo.com under Investors. 
Joining us today are Bob Bruggeworth, President and CEO, Mark Murphy, Chief Financial Officer, Eric Creviston, President of Qorvo's Mobile Products Group, Philip Chesley, incoming President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group, and James Klein, outgoing President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products Group, as well as other members of Qorvo's management team. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Bob Bruggeworth
Thank you Doug, and welcome everyone to our call. The Qorvo team delivered an exceptional September quarter with revenue and EPS at all-time highs. Strength during the quarter was broad-based across customers, and supported by new product launches. In mobile products, the multiyear migration of 5G continues to drive RF content and integration trends. 
We begin in top-tier flagship phones is now playing out in the mass market where the RF content increase is greater on a percent basis than in flagship devices. Qorvo enjoys broad exposure to mass market designs at customers like Owner, OPPO, Pixel, Samsung, Vivo, and Xiaomi. 
As a preferred supplier with leading products and a robust technology roadmap, Qorvo is well-positioned as 5G devices and Android ecosystem contribute increasingly to the growth in the RF TAM. In other connectivity markets, ultra - wideband adoption in smartphones is serving as the infrastructure for a growing ecosystem of ultra - wideband -enabled devices. 
The opportunities set spans mobile, automotive, and IoT markets, creating a strong foundation for growth over the coming years. In Wi-Fi, the adoption of Wi-Fi 6E, and the performance limitations of smaller node CMOS integrated PAs are driving the migration to chip onboard FEMs and iFEMs like ours. 
In Wi-Fi and other markets, Qorvo's products and technologies, or at the forefront of multiyear upgrade cycles, enabling new ecosystems and use cases, and transforming the user experience. Now let's look at some of the quarterly highlights in our end markets, starting with mobile. 
For good rule, we commenced shipments of mid high and ultra-high band pad, antenna tuners, and multiple connectivity solutions to support the ramp of their recently announced Pixel 6. For an upcoming Korea-based 5G mass market smartphone platform, we received the first production orders for our mid high and ultra-high band pads, Wi-Fi FEMs, and multiple high-performance discrete solutions. 
In mobile Wi-Fi, we secured a Wi-Fi 6 FEM design wins with multiple top-tier smartphone OEMs, and began sampling Wi-Fi 7 FEMs, enabling higher data rates and improved performance. And ultra-wide band, Qorvo's advancing technologies for a diverse ecosystem of proximity aware connected devices. 
We secured an ultra-wide band design win to enable real-time device tracking and other location aware applications in home mesh networks. And we were selected to supply ultra-wide band solutions for enterprise access points as well. We also expanded our engagement with a leading provider of consumer IoT products across a broad set of connected home devices, including smart speakers, point control fans, and air conditioners. 
In automotive manufacturing, Qorvo was selected to supply ultrawide band and Zigbee solutions with concurrent connect technology to an automaker in Korea streamlining automation in manufacturing. In other connectivity markets, we began sampling a Wi-Fi 6 iFEM covering 5.2 gigahertz and 5.6 gigahertz, and featuring an integrated BAW filter. 
Qorvo's 5 gigahertz iFEMs enable higher capacity, and improved efficiency and a reduced form factor. In broadband, we begin sampling a triple output DOCSIS 3.1 amplifier module supporting network upgrades for major cable operators in the U.S. and in Europe. In infrastructure, Design-Win activity was strong across OEMS, including small cells and base stations. 
Wins included all of the RF transmit and receive PAP content, including BAW filters for 5G small cells at a major base station OEM. We see infrastructure markets picking up in 2022 with Qorvo's SAM growing year-over-year. The SAM for Qorvo outside of China will post significant growth next year and support a strong double-digit CAGR through 2025. 
In Aerospace and Defense, we expanded our product portfolio with an industry-leading 125 watt S band power amplifier module and a 1.8 kilowatt L band radar pallet for commercial and defense radar applications. In RF-based biotechnology testing, we received our first commercial orders and commenced shipments of our Omnia Antigen Test Platform. 
During the quarter, the NIH RADx variant task force conducted an external study that demonstrated the performance of our Omnia Antigen Test Platform and effectively detecting COVID variants, including the Delta variant. Although this is a new market for us. We believe we bring a novel technology that offers unique and real value as the world moves to more testing protocols, including for flu AB, and other seasonal pathogens. 
Our platform offers a unique combination of accuracy and speed at the point-of-care with improved process flow including, real-time wireless delivery of results. We have seen its benefits in our own operations as part of our protocol for our own internal testing. After the quarter closed, Qorvo acquired United Silicon Carbide, an innovator in silicon carbide power devices, and a pioneer in silicon carbide JFETs. 
The combination will further differentiate Qorvo's power portfolio, enabling more highly integrated power device solutions and expand our addressable market to include higher voltage applications that demand maximum power efficiency, such as electric vehicles, charging stations, and renewable energy systems. We welcome Chris Dries and his team and look forward to helping them accelerate the growth in their business. 
For Qorvo, our ability to deliver more power, more efficiently and using less current helped put us at the center of the digital transformation. We're eager to expand these competencies as global markets move to electrification and renewable energy. Qorvo's technology portfolio is best-in-class, our product position is strong, our end-market exposure is expanding, and we are operating very well. 
Yes, we're seeing constraints and we are working closely with our customers and our partners. Mark will have more comments about the operating environment. We look forward to discussions during your question-and-answers. Big picture, we see the industry working through this as it always has. 
For Qorvo we see a business with unique competencies and expanding set of growth drivers, and we expect a continuation of double-digit growth over several years. Before handling the call over to Mark, I'm pleased to welcome Philip Tesley as President of Qorvo's Infrastructure and Defense Products group. 
Philip has a proven track record, growing global semiconductor businesses with experienced in RF, power, data communications, automotive, industrial, aerospace, and defense. We're very pleased Philip has joined Qorvo to lead our IDP team. Also want to thank James Klein. Since the formation of Qorvo, James and the team have more than doubled IDP revenue while creating a recognized industry leader. 
We thank James for his many contributions to Qorvo and wish him the very best. James will remain with us through November to help ensure a smooth transition with the change in the IDP leadership. And with that, I'll hand the call over to Mark.
Mark Murphy
Thanks, Bob. And good afternoon everyone. In the September quarter, Qorvo delivered the strongest quarterly revenue and earnings in the Company's history. Qorvo's revenue for the fiscal year 2022, second quarter was $1.255 billion. $5 million above the midpoint of our guidance and $195 million or 18% higher than last year's September quarter. 
When comparing September quarter numbers, recall that our fiscal year 2021 was a 53-week fiscal year and a September quarter last year was a 14-week quarter versus this fiscal year's more typical 13-week quarter. Mobile products revenue of $996 million was up 32% year-over-year on a continued growth of higher content 5G smartphones. 
Infrastructure, and Defense Products revenue of $260 million was slightly below expectations due to reduced supply from outsourced assembly and test operations in Malaysia and elsewhere. As expected, IDP was down year-over-year due primarily to last year's strong infrastructure build-out and the 14-week quarter. We expect IDP to return to year-over-year growth in the December quarter, and growth to accelerate in the March quarter. 
Non-GAAP gross margin in the September quarter was 52.4% above the midpoint of our guidance, despite supply chain disruptions that worsened through the quarter. Non-GAAP operating expenses in the second quarter were less than expected at $222 million or 17.7% of sales. 
The sequential and year-over-year increases in OpEx were driven by technology and product development expenses associated with key growth programs and recent acquisitions. Non-GAAP operating income in the September quarter was $435 million and 34.7% of sales. This was a fourth consecutive quarter of operating margin over 33%. 
Non-GAAP net income in the second quarter was $385 million and diluted earnings per share of $3.42 was $0.18 above the midpoint of our guidance. Cash flow from operations in the second quarter was $245 million. Our working capital includes an increase in payables associated with a long-term silicon supply agreement. The largest of these payers is a deposit which we expect to recoup by the end of the agreement in calendar '25. 
This agreement is structured -- this agreement is a structured way to advance our differentiated technology position and simplifying our long-term planning. Furthermore, it's only one of a number of examples whereby Qorvo is building longer term and more collaborative partnerships to provide our customers supply assurance, and meet their product and technology needs. 
Concurrently, our customer relationships are broadening and strengthening, allowing us to invest with more certainty. As we have indicated previously, the challenges the industry is currently experiencing are driving more constructive and longer-term relationships that we see enhancing the over-all durability and value of the business. 
Capital expenditures in the September quarter were $47 million, lower than expected on spend timing, and an earlier than expected reimbursement for a portion of our government funded work on advanced packaging. Free cash flow was a $198 million and we repurchased $223 million of shares. Over the last two quarters, we've purchased $523 million of shares which was a 110% of our free cash flow. 
We've continued to repurchase shares as our outlook is positive, our free cash flow and ability to sustain investment in technology and growth is strong, and our leverage remains low. On the balance sheet, cash and debt remained largely unchanged from the prior quarter at $1.2 billion and $1.7 billion respectively. 
In the December quarter, our cash is projected to decline following payments associated with the previously mentioned agreement, and with our acquisition of United Silicon Carbide. Now, turning to our current quarter outlook. We expect revenue between $1.090 billion and $1.120 billion, non-GAAP gross margin between 52% and 52.5%, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.75 at the midpoint of our guidance. 
Our December quarter revenue outlook reflects broad-based challenges and supply, impacting Mobile and IDP, and near-term weakness in demand, principally in Asia. Starting with supply, we have several areas of constraint. Our external supply chain is still recovering from disruptions in September, including shutdowns in Southeast Asia. Beyond that, select materials, products, and production capacity remain tight. 
These are industry-wide issues affecting all suppliers, and our customers are challenged in producing matched sets for products. For example, in smartphones, even where channel inventory for certain parts is healthy, customers lack silicon chips to produced phones. This in turn creates cheque changes in demand that add to constraints on our own production as we work to adjust mix. 
Mix changes are part of our business. But in a normal environment, Qorvo can move swiftly to respond and capture demand. These supply-driven gaps are making recent demand softness in select areas, such as our Asia smartphone customers, harder to quantify. We see the industry working through this situation, with some supply effects beginning to moderate this quarter. And supply demand alignment improving more broadly through the March quarter. 
Given the supply and demand effects, we now see 5G smartphone volumes coming in below $550 million in calendar '21. Qorvo's December forecasted revenue of $1.105 billion at the midpoint is down 12% sequentially and up slightly year-over-year. We forecast mobile revenue in the current quarter to be approximately $830 million at the midpoint, down 17% sequentially and flat year-over-year. 
In the March quarter, we expect mobile to be up slightly sequentially as a typical seasonal decline is offset by improved supply and demand. In IDP, we project revenue to increase in the December quarter to $275 million and the segment to return to year-over-year growth. We expect IDP to be over $300 million in the March quarter. 
Our December quarter gross margin guide of 52.25% at the midpoint, is up versus the view we provided last quarter, despite a more challenging supply demand environment than expected. We see our technology and product mix and operating and capital efficiency, yielding a gross margin above 52% for the fiscal year. We expect the March quarter to be around 52%. 
We project non-GAAP operating expenses to increase slightly in the December quarter to approximately $224 million, reflecting higher investments in core technologies and expanding capabilities in new businesses, including the addition of the United Silicon Carbide team. We now project our current quarter and full-year non-GAAP tax rate to be between 8.5% and 9%. 
Capital expenditures are projected to exceed $70 million in the December quarter as we work to intersect demand and support long-term supply agreements with multiple customers. Currently, we are supply constrained and prod project to remain so through our fiscal year end. We continue to expand BAW and GAAP's capacity, as well as biosensor production capacity to support our growth projections for fiscal 2023. 
In summary, we expect year-over-year revenue growth in the December quarter, though less than we had expected previously. The current supply challenges and near-term demand weakness are acute, but more temporary than durable. We expect supply effects to moderate starting this quarter and improved supply demand alignment early next calendar year. 
For full FY22, we expect revenue growth over 15%, gross margin over 52 -- excuse me, we expect revenue growth over 15%, gross margin over 52%, and operating margin of approximately 33%. Looking beyond this fiscal year, we expect double-digit growth to continue as Qorvo's premium technology product portfolio and operating capability support 5G, Wi-Fi, IoT, defense, power, and other growth markets. 
Overall, we are investing to grow mobile and IDP at above market. Looking at our business by end markets instead of operating segments, helps highlight the strength of our portfolio and market position. On advanced cellular RF front-ends for smartphones, Qorvo's technology and product breadth is world-class. 
We expect this part of Qorvo's business near $3.3 billion this fiscal year to deliver high single-digit to low double-digit growth as increasing RF complexity and integration trends support years of content expansion. Next, looking at other connectivity beyond cellular solutions for smartphones, Qorvo enjoys exposure across multiple wireless protocols and serves industrial automation, conducted home, automotive, and other high-growth IoT markets. 
This fiscal year, connectivity solutions spread across our mobile and IDP segments combined to approximately $700 million and can grow in the strong double-digits. Finally, defense infrastructure and power solutions support multiple long-term secular growth drivers. These include the multi-year build-out and 5G infrastructure, increasing semiconductors spend and defense and worldwide demand for power semis driven by mega trends like electrification. 
We expect to sustain long-term double-digit growth in this business from a base of over $600 million this fiscal year. Our December quarter is off what we expected previously, but still guided up year-over-year as is our view of the March quarter. We expect the business to strengthen through the second half of our fiscal year and contribute to a record full-year performance, including earnings growth over 20%. 
Longer term, the outlook is bright. Qorvo is exceptionally well positioned to deliver earnings and free cash flow growth, serving a large and growing need for more efficient power and greater connectivity. Now Todd, would you please open the line for questions?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question. [Operator Instructions]. Will take our first question from Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs.
Toshiya Hari
Hi guys. Good afternoon. Thanks so much for taking the question. I have two if I may. My first one is probably for Mark. The 17% sequential decline you're guiding to in your mobile business for December, it's probably hard, but can you sort of break that down into supply factors and demand factors to the extent possible? And then on the demand side, you talked about weakness in Asia, but if you can elaborate on that, that would be super helpful. And I got a quick, quick follow-up.
Mark Murphy
Sure. So Toshiya, we decrease our December number about a $150 million as you can see. And -- about $135 million that was in mobile where we went from roughly $965 to $830 in the December quarter. The balance of that decrease was IDP. IDP is the most straightforward. It's all supply in IDP, so just keep that in mind. 
Of the $135, roughly, in mobile, as we characterize supply constraints, which is our suppliers not having supply for us, our customers not having the chipsets, thus not able to build their product and use our product, and then finally, our own internal constraints. We see up to a $100 million that we would characterize as supplier-related of that $135 million. The balance -- so $35 million we would view as net demand. 
Some demand is up and we're able to intercept that. But some demand is clearly down and I think that's well publicized, particularly in parts of Asia. So, broad brush strokes, we're 3 quarters or less down on supply in mobile, and 1 quarter or more related to demand. Now, if you add in IDP, which is all supply, then that proportion is stronger. So that's our view, Toshiya.
Toshiya Hari
Great. Thanks for the color. And then, as my follow-up, you guys talked quite a bit about having constructive longer-term conversations with your customers. You also talked about your long-term silicon supply agreement. As you compare and contrast the visibility you have today versus three years ago, five years ago, how would you characterize the key differences? 
I'm sure you've had long-term agreements in the past, but how much bigger are they as a percentage of your backlog and how enforceable are they going forward relative to history? Thank you.
Eric Creviston
Sure. This is Eric. I'll take that. I think one of the silver linings in this environment is how constructed their conversations have gotten in terms of much longer-term. So not just 1 or even 2 years, but in some cases up to 3 years of discussions about how we're going to outline both our technology and supply roadmap to our customers product roadmaps, their markets and what they expect to ship. 
And there is no crystal ball, it's not perfect, but at least we have ranges of alignment and sort of volume bars, share windows and things like this that we can talk both to our customers and to our suppliers. And, I think for suppliers it's a great benefit to them, and thus to have more stability and for our customers, of course, the supply assurance is paramount. 
And for us to have more confidence in our growth of the businesses is, of course, very important as well. It's a very different environment driven by all the factors we've talked about already on this call.
Toshiya Hari
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from Vivek Arya of Bank of America.
Vivek Arya
Thank you for taking my question. For the first one, I'm curious, given the supply constraints in the industry, does that change the competitive landscape in the RF side in some areas as we look at next year? For example, one of your competitors, again bundled their apps processors and modems along the RF side, do you think that give them, perhaps an advantage from a competitive perspective as we look at next year?
Eric Creviston
Hey, Vivek. This is Eric. I don't think so. Technology decisions are still critical to enable next-generation phones, and best-in-class RF is still going to win in the front-end section. So I don't think we're competing against people that have advantages of bundling across the boundary, if you will, from the apps and modem side to the RF side really. 
And I think -- again, just as in the last question with Toshiya, I think the long-term visibility we have and planning our technology roadmaps, we're getting no signs that there's any change, if you will, through the bundling or the architectures that would change that.
Bob Bruggeworth
This is Bob, thanks for your question. I think the other point that's interesting is that a lot of the things that our customers are waiting on are from some of those very people you mentioned. So I think we need to keep that in mind, it's not us the primary reason. It's -- we have the parts. We can get the parts for them. 
They've been saying as we've mentioned, many times through last quarter as well as this quarter challenges our customers are having with Mac sets are kitting whatever vocabulary you want to use. That's been their bigger problem is in SoCs, not with RF front-ends, at least not from us.
Vivek Arya
All right. Then on the acquisition that was announced, I was hoping you could give us some more color in terms of what is the right way to reflect that in the model? And our sense of the Silicon Carbide and the power semi spaces, it's in front of a very large growth opportunity and auto than industrial and so forth. 
But it's a very capital intensive space, night and a number of the established players have margins well below your corporate average. So but what's the right way to think about the strategy? And is it going to be accretive overtime for you?
Mark Murphy
Let me take some of the financial elements that can help, turn it over to James. First of all, we're not in the capital intensive part. We're in a device manufacturing parts, so that's the expertise and we're leveraging our Silicon Carbide. Again, that's all about Carbide knowledge and which will be an advantage here. So that's -- maybe first thing is realizing that these are things that we can foundry and source the material. 
There will be more disclosure in our Q tomorrow, but it will be over $200 million that we're paying for United Silicon Carbide. And it is dilutive initially, but we expect that to be accretive maybe at the end of next fiscal year, and we expect it to be a significant business for us several years out. James.
James Klein
This is James. As you as you stated, we like the aspect that it gets us into several fast-growing markets like electric vehicles, industrial power, and data centers. Maybe in longer-term, even in things like Circuit Protection. We see it all in current year, expanding our adjustable market by almost a billion dollars. And we think that certainly continues to grow at a high growth rate as we go over the next several years. We do believe that we have the industry leading performance inefficiency and in die-size. So we think when we compare those differentiated type capabilities with our existing power management capabilities, we really do believe we have the ability to continue to grow and scale the business.
Vivek Arya
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Blayne Curtis of Barclays.
Blayne Curtis
Good afternoon. Thanks for my question. I just want to go back on the supply issues. If you look at the shipments from the two major modem companies, I guess they're out and you're seeing a correction. So just kind of curious, there's a couple of ways that could happen. 
Just curious if now in retrospect, did you ship more RF than maybe modems in the first half of the year and that has to correct? Or -- just kind of curious to hear your thoughts on that. I know you probably haven't seen Qualcomm's guide, but [Indiscernible] MediaTek, you're not seeing as sharp of a decline in December. Just thoughts between the disconnect there.
Eric Creviston
Yeah Blayne, this is Eric, yeah, it's a good question, and I think to a certain extent, there's some of that and I think a lot of it comes down to mix as well. I think we did a good job of responding to customer demand. We still have several parts where we're on allocation as well and chasing in behind of course, as we talked about. 
But for the most part, we did a pretty good job of satisfying customer demand. But what happens is as the mix shifts, I mean, they are essentially taking every base band chip they can get regardless of which our efforts on. So it could be that net-net wish just a bit ahead up to this point.
Blayne Curtis
Okay. And then just your perspective on it.
Mark Murphy
I was just going to add Blayne that -- listen, we're disappointed with the December guide, but I think it's also to reinforce our commitment to keep the channel healthy and give you a guide best we see on the supply demand fronts. But it's never easy but admittedly, it's more difficult than usual environment right now. I do think it's important with this adjustment to step back, not lose sight of how good a business we've got. 
For this fiscal year, we call down. But that was -- and we've missed, but that's a -- there is an aged consensus that clearly the supply environment worsened through the quarter, particularly in mid to late September. And then these publicized weakness in demand emerged. We see things improving. 
We think December is as bad as it gets for us and we see improving in March, and broadly. We had given a guidance range of 15% to 20%, and with this 2.5% adjustment for the year were down at the lower end of that range. So we're still in the range that we had provided. Listen, our gross margin outlook is intact around 52%. OpEx is in control and we're investing in the future of the business. 
That's both traditional parts of the business and newer parts of the business. And in the end, we're taken EPS roughly a dime above $12 to roughly a dime below $12. And so there is a bit of a correction there, but I would say it's the right thing for us to do. If we look into next year and beyond, we're just feeling great about our position. 
Now, premium technology and products serving attractive end markets, growing double-digits, and we expect to grow double-digits. We're operating well sustaining margins over 52%, expanding operating margins. So lot to talk about in the positive beyond this quarter.
Blayne Curtis
And I guess when you look at your supply constraints on these constraints in your business, but you did grow inventory in September with that level of sales. So I guess I'm looking at our sales down team. So I guess I'm wondering, I guess the supply situation getting that bad between September, December, or is there another factor there? I'm just trying to understand those moving pieces.
Mark Murphy
No, we're -- it did get worse in mid to late September, B