QUALCOMM Incorporated (NASDAQ:QCOM) Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call July 28, 2021  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan - Vice President, Investor Relations
Cristiano Amon - President and Chief Executive Officer
Akash Palkhiwala - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Mike Walkley - Canaccord Genuity
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Rod Hall - Goldman Sachs
Pradeep Ramani - UBS
Brett Simpson - Arete Research
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm Third Quarter and Fiscal 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, July 28, 2021. The playback number for today's call is 877-660-6853. International callers, please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13720943.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano Amon and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and the slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay will be available on our website later today.
During the call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends, or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
And now, to comments from Qualcomm's Chief Executive Officer, Cristiano Amon.
Cristiano Amon
Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. This is an amazing time to be part of Qualcomm. The need for our technologies and products has never been more evident. We're seeing demand across virtually every industry, because our products and technologies are essential ingredients that enable digital transformation in the cloud economy.
We are leading and expect to continue to lead in mobile. In addition, we also expect to lead the evolution of the connected intelligent edge by transforming connectivity and processing in cars, the enterprise, the home, smart factories, next-generation PCs and tablets, XR, wearables, and many more. This is the foundation of a revenue diversification strategy.
The strong performance in our business has led to fiscal third quarter revenues and earnings per share that exceeded the high-end of our guidance. Most importantly, we are on track to realize approximately $10 billion in combined revenues across IoT, RF front-end and automotive in fiscal year 2021, validating the positive financial impact of our revenue diversification strategy.
Let me provide you now with some additional details. The foundation of our IoT strategy is edge connectivity and processing for the growing cloud base economy. In consumer, we're seeing strong demand, driven by a consumer electronics upgrade cycle and growth in emerging product categories, such as XR and wearables.
In edge networking, we had another great quarter, with continued momentum driven by the enterprise transformation of the home in this second wave of enterprise demand, driven by return to the workplace. We're also seeing rapid adoption of Wi-Fi 6 and increased demand for both 4G and 5G mobile broadband devices.
In industrial, our product offerings are purpose-built for key verticals, such as transportation and logistics, warehousing, video collaboration, smart cameras, retail, and more. We are at the forefront of enabling this new ecosystem and also making 5G for industrial applications a reality. We are becoming the connected intelligent edge partner of choice.
As demand for automotive solutions increase, we're pleased to report that our automotive revenue design win pipeline has reached approximately $10 billion. And based on our third quarter results, our annualized automotive revenue run rate is now over $1 billion. This reflects continued traction across global automakers and Tier 1 customers.
Our automotive telematics and connectivity platforms, digital cockpit and C-V2X solutions are at the intersection of key automotive industry trends, such as the continued growth of connected vehicles, the transformation of the in-car experience and vehicle electrification. As the digital chasses become one of the most important assets of automakers, we remain well-positioned for continued growth as a leading technology partner for the industry.
In RF front-end, we believe we are on track to become the largest smartphone RF front-end supplier by revenue. Looking forward, we expect to have technology leadership across virtually all handset RF front-end components, while continue to lead in modem-to-antenna system performance.
Now, I will provide an update on two key drivers for handset revenues. First, we continue to be positively impacted by the growth in 5G and changing OEM landscape, resulting in the expansion of our addressable handset opportunity. Our Snapdragon 8 Series mobile platforms have shown significant design win momentum. More than half of our 5G smartphone design wins to date are using our 8 Series and total design wins for Snapdragon 888 increased more than 20% quarter-over-quarter.
We're also seeing strong traction with our Snapdragon 7 Series mobile platforms, with nearly 40 new devices shipped or announced during this last quarter alone. Based on our design win traction and performance of our customers, we have increased confidence in growing our handset revenues. Snapdragon premium and high-tier solutions remain synonymous, with Android flagship mobile experiences.
Second, we're still on track to materially improve supply by the end of the calendar year. We're securing incremental capacity across both leading and mature nodes and optimizing the allocation of our products across the global supply chain.
We're also making progress with our multi-sourcing initiatives. In fiscal Q3, the Snapdragon 778 G, the first of several products from our multi-sourcing initiatives, was commercialized in record time and is now shipping in volume. Additional products from our multi-sourcing initiatives will be commercialized in the coming months. I would like to thank our employees, our suppliers, and our customers for helping us navigate the challenging supply environment.
In our licensing business, our third quarter results reflect the strength of our patent portfolio and the stability of our licensing program. We are a global 5G IP leader with more than 150 5G license agreements signed to date, up from more than one-third at last quarter. We continued to develop and patent new essential innovations for future releases of 5G. And we expect 5G to have a longer lifecycle than prior generations due to its broad application across multiple industries.
I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.
Akash Palkhiwala
Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to report another exceptional quarter in a challenging environment, as we continue to execute on our priorities, including 5G adoption, revenue diversification, and operating leverage.
Our third quarter results were above the high-end of our guidance, with non-GAAP revenues of $8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.92. These results reflect 63% year-over-year increase in non-GAAP revenues and more than doubling of EPS, driven by strength across QCT and QTL, including a partial recovery from the impact of COVID in the year ago period.
QTL revenues of $1.5 billion and EBT margins of 71% were about the midpoint of our guidance. These results reflect the impact of a stronger mix offset by lower than expected units in China and India. QCT revenues of $6.5 billion and EBT margins of 28% were above the high-end of our guidance. EBT of $1.8 billion nearly tripled versus a year ago period on revenue growth of 70% and 12 points of EBT margin expansion. 
Handset revenues increased 57% year-over-year to $3.9 billion, driven by the adoption of 5G products in premium and high-tier devices across all major OEMs. Combined RF front-end, IoT and automotive revenues accounted for approximately 40% of total QCT revenues within the quarter and grew 1.6 times faster than handset revenues year-over-year.
RF front-end revenues of $957 million more than doubled year-over-year on the strength of our broad product portfolio and customer traction. As a reminder, our RF front-end revenues include power amplifiers, trackers, antenna tuners, filters, diversity and millimeter wave modules, and excludes revenue from RF transceivers.
IoT revenues grew 83% year-over-year to $1.4 billion, an increase of approximately $100 million versus guidance. The outperformance was driven by demand across consumer edge networking and industrial platforms. Automotive revenues of $253 million grew 83% year-over-year on the adoption of connected cars and expansion of digital cockpit revenues. Our increasing design win pipeline now puts us on track to exceed the 2024 revenue target outlined that last Investor Day.
Turning to our guidance for handset units and fourth fiscal quarter. For calendar 2021, we're maintaining our forecast for high single digit growth for global 3G, 4G, 5G handsets, including 450 to 550 million 5G handsets. Given the strong adoption of 5G in developed regions in China, we have a bias towards the high-end of our 5G forecast. In the fourth fiscal quarter, we are forecasting revenues of $8.4 billion to $9.2 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.15 to $2.35.
In QTL, we expect revenues of $1.45 billion to $1.65 billion and EBT margins of 69% to 73%. In QCT, we expect revenues of $7 billion to $7.5 billion and EBT margins of 29% to 31%. At the midpoint, this implies year-over-year revenue growth of 46% and EBT dollar growth of 114%. The strength of our QCT forecast reflects sequential growth across all revenue streams, including premium and high-tier device launches and operating leverage benefit from extending our mobile technology and investments across IoT and automotive. Lastly, we anticipate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to grow 2% to 3% sequentially.
Based on the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance, I would like to emphasize some key metrics for fiscal 2021. We expect non-GAAP EPS of $8.24, nearly doubling relative to fiscal 2020. Within QCT, we expect year-over-year revenue growth of $10 billion and operating margin expansion from 17% in fiscal 2020 to 28% in fiscal 2021.
With our continued focus on diversification, we're forecasting RF front-end, IoT and automotive combined revenues to grow from $6 billion in fiscal 2020 to $10 billion in fiscal 2021. We expect to exit the fiscal year with a strong product roadmap, expanded design win pipeline, and increased customer traction.
Before I finished my prepared remarks, I'd like to highlight a couple items. As part of our ongoing ESG efforts, we recently started purchasing 100% renewable solar energy for our San Diego headquarters, which will significantly reduce our annual greenhouse gas emissions. Lastly, we'll be hosting our Investor Day in New York on November 16th, where we will provide an update on our long-term strategy and financial outlook.
Thank you. And I'll now turn the call back to Mauricio.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions]
Our first question is coming from the line of Mike Walkley with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed with your question.
Mike Walkley
Great. Thank you. Congratulations on the strong results. Just wanted to focus on the QCT margins. While June is seemingly a softer quarter, with Apple back in the model, the margins came in above your guidance and you’re guiding to a 30% sequentially. Could you, Akash, maybe provide any estimates, or supply constraints or expedited shipments? Did that adversely impact guidance at all? And is 28% EBT margins, is that now good to think of it as a floor? And if not, what are some puts and takes that might move it lower over time?
Akash Palkhiwala
Sure. Mike, thanks for the question. Really, when you look at our operating leverage performance in the year, we were pretty happy with the way we've seen the operating margin expansion with revenue growth. If you look at what happened in the third quarter, we had a guidance midpoint of 25%. We came in at 28%, and so that's on the strength largely of revenue coming in higher and then strong gross margin performance as well. And then, now we are forecasting a midpoint of 30% in the fourth fiscal quarter.
So, really, when you think about it going forward, we plan our margins around revenue scale and R&D investments, and the trick really for us is to optimize those two. As we mentioned in our prepared remarks, as we exit the fiscal year, we feel like we're in a very strong position from a design win perspective to continue to grow revenues. And as we optimize investments against it, I think, we have an opportunity to continue to expand our operating margins.
Mike Walkley
Okay. Thanks. And just for my follow-up, maybe for Cristiano. Just focusing on the IoT business, the impressive 83% year-over-year growth. You – maybe you're going to say this for the Analyst Day, but how should we think about -- what's a reasonable CAGR for this business? And how much of the business today is 5G, and what could 5G do in terms of growing the IoT business?
Cristiano Amon
Thanks Mike. That's a great question. We're very excited about this business for a number of reasons. First, is very diversified. There's a lot of things in our IoT segment. It has consumer, it has networking and it has industrial. And what we see is really secular growth trends, which is all based to an accelerated digital transformation. And we are going to provide a lot more details about how we think about growth rates of this business in our Analyst Day. It is one of the largest SAM expansion opportunity for Qualcomm. It is highly diversified and it has not only higher growth rates than handsets. I think Akash outlined a 1.6 times our non-handset growth rate, but also is accretive to more -- to margins and create operating leverage. So, stay tuned for more, but we're very happy about what we see with IoT right now.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from Chris Caso with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.
Chris Caso
Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. I guess for the first question, maybe you could talk about what generated the upside in the quarter as compared to your expectations. Was it a matter of getting more supply? Because I know supply constraints were a big concern coming in.
And then if you could talk to us about the status of those supply constraints going into the end of the year? You talked about getting some additional supply. Does that benefit the December quarter, or where does that supply come farther out in time?
Akash Palkhiwala
Hey, Chris, it's Akash. So, let me try to answer both of your questions and I'm sure Cristiano can add comments to it. For the third fiscal quarter, as you know, our guidance midpoint was $1.65. We came in at $1.92 and really most of the upside was driven by QCT. We did come in a slightly stronger than QTL, which was really just a trade-off between slightly lower units on -- in India and China, the low tier, but offset by stronger product mix, especially with 5G in various regions. So that helped us.
Going over to QCT, what we really liked about the growth that we saw in the quarter is really we saw strength across all the different revenue streams. So, it's not just handsets, but also IoT and RF front-end and auto. And within that, we had a stronger mix, product mix that helped us. And as we just discussed on the IoT side, significant upside, $100 million higher than the revenue guidance we had given. So that helped as well.
And then maybe the last thing I'll highlight is gross margin performance. We're pretty happy with the gross margin performance in the quarter. So, those were kind of all the key factors that contributed to it.
Turning over to supply. As we said in Cristiano's prepared remarks, consistent with what we provided last time, we continue to expect that supply will improve materially by the end of the year. And it's really a combination of two drivers. We're seeing multi-sourcing initiatives that we've put in place over the last several months. We're seeing the benefit of that as we can use available capacity across the foundries.
And then the second is really, previously planned capacity builds with some of our suppliers that comes online towards the end of the year as well. So both of those initiatives that we have previously discussed are in play and that's helping us. The first one of our multi-sourcing product, we'd recently commercialized and we have a couple more coming up. So, that's really -- you're seeing some of the benefits of those initiatives in our September quarter guide and we'll see even more benefit in the December quarter guide.
Cristiano Amon
Chris, this is Cristiano. And only thing I would like to add is, in spite of having great results, both revenue and EPS, all exceeding the right end of our guidance. We still have demand outpacing supply. We're -- we have more demand and supply across all of our business. And as you look up our guide in the next quarter, it's consistent with the statement we made that we see material improvement in supply to Qualcomm by the end of the year. And that's great news. And -- but overall, we continue to see a strong demand in every single business outpacing supply.
Chris Caso
That’s very helpful. Thank you. For my follow-up, I wanted to address one of the investor concerns to give you the opportunity to address it. And that's the modem socket at Apple. And of course, Apple has expressed that they're also working on their own modems. So that's a concern to investors. I know that getting Apple, it's limited -- you're limited in what you can say on that, but I guess I wanted to hear what you could say on it. And perhaps if you could talk about perhaps the magnitude of that risk, if Apple were to take that path, what would it mean for Qualcomm?
Cristiano Amon
Thanks for your follow-up question. Two answers for you and not any different than what you would expect from Qualcomm. I think, the very first one, yes, we're very happy with relationship with Apple. We're just on their first phone. We have other phones to go and we're very happy with it, the way things are progressing. At the end of the day, you should always think of Qualcomm. We have always been really focused on seller technology, the first with every new generation of wireless. And as long as modem continued to be relevant, there's always going to be a place for Qualcomm in this business.
The second part of the answer, which I think is the most important and an opportunity to address investor concerns is the biggest opportunity for Qualcomm in mobile is the changes that are happening in the mobile landscape right now.
As a matter of fact, this quarter, Xiaomi is now the number two OEM in award and shipments. And we see the shifts in OEM market share create an incredible opportunity for us. Snapdragon became synonymous with Android premium and high-tier. That is how are we going to go faster than the market and incredible opportunity for revenue and earnings, looking at the whole value of the Snapdragon platform. We're super focused on executing on this opportunity, and it's going to be one of the key drivers of growth in Qualcomm handset strategy going forward.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Samik Chatterjee with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.
Samik Chatterjee
Hi. Good afternoon. Congrats on the results. Hi, Cristiano. Hi, Akash. Just -- maybe I wanted to start off here on the RF -- results on the RF side and really great progress there. Does sound like you're on track, and targeting to become one of the largest RF suppliers. Just if you can give us more of an update. I know you do it more annually, but update on where you stand in terms of share relative to some of the incumbents there? And what's driving the conference here, particularly as you go into heavy period of design wins and launches, what's driving the confidence about getting to that pole position in that market. And then I have a follow-up as well.
Akash Palkhiwala
Hey, Samik. It’s Akash. Thanks for your question. Overall, on the RF front-end side, the starting point for us obviously always is, having the right product portfolio. And so, over the last three years, we've been investing in the breadth of the portfolio and we are in a very good place. I think, as you look forward, not only are we the leaders in the modem to RF end-to-end system solutions, but also each individual component within RF front-end. We feel like we're in a very competitive and strong product position.
The second is just the design win pipeline that we have in front of us. We have great relationships with the OEMs in the mobile industry. And so that relationship then extends into providing an end-to-end solution for them. And so, as we look forward and based on our conversations to commitments we have from the OEMs on the designs, we feel very confident that we have an upward trajectory going forward.
And then finally, in terms of scale, really when we look at the scale within handsets, we already feel like we're maybe the largest player in the industry in RF front-end. And the opportunity for us is as 5G expands outside, how do we take our position in the handsets while we continue to grow within handsets, but also take it outside and grow in other areas.
Samik Chatterjee
For my follow-up, Akash, you talked about the growth in handsets, just kind of thinking a bit more longer-term and into next year, how should we think about what's the primary driver here is? Is it still content increase as you get more on 5G phones, or is it really the $10 billion Huawei TAM that you've talked about? And in that context, can you talk about MediaTek products and the competitive landscape there and how that's evolving?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yeah. So maybe I'll address the first part and then Cristiano can address the MediaTek competitive landscape. Overall, I think the answer to your question is all of the above, right? We clearly have a long ways to go within 5G. We're at the front-end of it. And we're going to see the rest of the tiers transition over as well. And as that happens, we still think the metric that we gave previously of a 1.5 X multiplier on our revenue and margin opportunities still holds.
In addition to that, as you're seeing the changing OEM landscape is benefiting us with our customers winning share. And as that happens, when you combine that with our product portfolio within 5G and design commitments from our customers, especially in the premium and high-tiers, that positions us to grow significantly as we move into fiscal 2022.
Maybe a quick data point to give on Honor, they are in the process of launching three phones with us. One is a premium-tier Snapdragon 888 phone, and then two in the high-tier. And so, it's just an example of how we are expanding our customer base.
Cristiano Amon
Hi, Samik. So, really simple answer, not to talk about MediaTek, but we think that there's plenty of opportunities for growth for us in other companies in the changing landscape. What is really important for Qualcomm, and I'll give a couple of metrics. One outlined by Akash, not only we have a strong roadmap, but we have customer commitments to premium and high-tier designs for Qualcomm.
The total design wins for Snapdragon 800 increased 20% quarter-over-quarter, and all for total 5G design wins, half for the design is Snapdragon 8 Series. So that -- it's the clear indication about Qualcomm opportunity into premium and high, where we can capture the majority of the value of the market. And we look at the growth of handset segment -- I know we talk a lot about a growth upside handset, but handsets up 6 billion year-over-year. Q3, 2021 handset revenue up 57%. So that's a clear indication that we're in the good position. We see that as one of the largest growth opportunities we have for the handset business, and we'll continue to be executing into this new TAM with a premium and high-tier devices.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.
Ross Seymore
Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask you a question. I guess this is my first one. I wanted to ask a question on gross margins to Akash. It's impressive that you guys grew your gross margin 70 basis points sequentially, despite the QCT side of the equation dropping in your mix. So, I just wanted to get into a little bit about what's driving that upside in gross margin in the quarter.
And more importantly, structurally going forward, given the new markets you're entering into the position you guys have in the market, is there anything structurally that would keep you from getting a gross margin more aligned to kind of even the mid-fifties range where a lot of your fabless [ph] peers currently reside.
Akash Palkhiwala
Hey, Ross. Thanks for your question. Yeah. As I said earlier, I think pretty happy with how we did on the gross margins. It's really a combination of a couple of things. One is just having a stronger mix of products. And so, as we see more adoption of our solutions at premium and high-tier, that helps our percent gross margin profile in addition to the dollar margins.
The second is really mix of businesses and it leads into your second point is as we grow into these other areas, automotive and IoT, our margin profile at the gross margin level help is -- that growth helps the gross margin profile. And so, that's a key factor for us going forward, as you rightly noted.
Ross Seymore
Great. Thanks for that color. And yeah, I should have clarified that the mid-fifties gross margin would be for the QCT side, not overall. But I guess as my follow-up question separately, whether it's Cristiano or Akash, how should we think just pluses and minuses for the calendar fourth quarter, you have a lot of different dynamics, the timing of premium launches, new launches from the Huawei, Honor, China ecosystem supply coming on board. So just a lot of different puts and takes that could make historical seasonality really be thrown out the window. So, any sort of just even directional color there on those puts and takes would be helpful.
Akash Palkhiwala
Sure. So, as you know, well, it's a seasonally strong quarter for the company overall. And let me just maybe quickly hit the two businesses. Within QTL, we've said in the past that we expect the holiday quarter to be around $1.7 billion range. So, at this point we're not seeing anything different at this point to give separate data points.
On the QCT side, we expect the seasonality to be a favorable thing for all of our businesses. So not just handsets, but RF front-end, IoT and auto. And so, we'll see a typical seasonal benefit. Within handsets, obviously we're getting the benefit from the launch of new handsets that happened during that time, especially in the premium and high-tier, and then, some supply improvements coming into the picture as well.
The one thing to keep in mind as a reminder last year, we had a higher than normal sequential increase from September to December quarter. And that was obviously because of two reasons that we would not have this time. First is Apple coming back as a customer to Qualcomm. And so that exaggerated the seasonality. And then also, there was a delay in their phone launch. So, those are two key factors. If you compare to last year, that'd be -- would not be factors that would imply this year.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Blayne Curtis with Barclays. Please proceed with your question.
Blayne Curtis
Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question and appreciate the detail on the IoT business that you released. Obviously, a very broad business. So I'm wondering if any way you can dial it in and maybe by the three sub-segments to where you've seen the strength, obviously the business nearly doubled since you started breaking it out. I know there's a lot of segments in there. I know it's pretty diverse. So, I was just curious, how you would answer the question as to -- within these segments, where are you seeing the most strength?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yeah. Blayne, it's Akash. Let me take a crack at that. If you look at what happened in our IoT business this year, we were somewhere in the $1.1 billion range -- revenue range for March. We grew to $1.4 billion. And as I mentioned earlier, we feel like we're in a strong position to continue to grow that revenue stream. So, pretty interesting trends for us.
When you break down the business and we broke it down in the slide you're referring to in three buckets. We had edge networking, consumer and industrial. Neither of those are dominant category. So, you should think of all three as contributing very materially to the total amount of revenue.
Maybe I'll highlight a couple of things. Within edge networking, both the Wi-Fi access point business and the 5G fixed wireless business, they’re both very strong for us. And especially when you think about the 5G fixed wireless business, we're really at the very front-end of that having ve