Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ:QCOM) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call February  3, 2020  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan - VP, IR
Steve Mollenkopf - CEO
Akash Palkhiwala - EVP and CFO
Cristiano Amon - President and CEO Elect
Alex Rogers - EVP and President, Qualcomm Technology Licensing
Conference Call Participants
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan
Mike Walkley - Canaccord Genuity
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Tal Liani - Bank of America
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Mitch Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Brett Simpson - Arete Research
C.J. Muse - Evercore
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm First Quarter and Fiscal 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded February 3rd, 2021. The playback number for today's call is 877-660-6853. International callers please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13714808.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan. Please go ahead.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Steve Mollenkopfl and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Cristiano Amon, Alex Rogers, and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session.
You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com and a replay will be available on our website later today.
During the call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. And you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements include projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends or business or financial results.
Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
And now to comments from Qualcomm's Chief Executive Officer, Steve Mollenkopf.
Steve Mollenkopf
Thank you, Mauricio and good afternoon everyone. Fiscal 2021 is off to a great start with record first quarter non-GAAP revenues of $8.2 billion, up 63% year-over-year and record non-GAAP earnings of $2.17 per share, more than doubling from the prior year.
The simultaneous global adoption of 5G combined with the increasingly complex technical requirements and a pace of change that it's accelerating drives a significant multi-year industry transition that plays to our strength.
QCT revenues of $6.5 billion were also a record, up 81% year-over-year and 32% sequentially. Notably, our strong performance and outlook would have been even stronger had we not been supply constrained.
Within QCT, we saw strength across our portfolio. Our RF adjacency demonstrated continued growth with quarterly revenues more than doubling year-over-year and crossing the $1 billion threshold, a significant milestone.
We are executing extremely well in our strategy to address many of the technical challenges of delivering a true modem-to-antenna 5G experience and capture a higher dollar share of content in smartphones.
We are also well-positioned with design wins across the mobile handset ecosystem, a strong pipeline for further growth in smartphones and a roadmap to bring our RF expertise to adjacent industries.
Our automotive revenues of $212 million were up 44% year-over-year and our design win pipeline has grown to $8.3 billion from just $3 billion three years ago, placing us on a trajectory to achieve our fiscal year 2024 revenue target of $1.5 billion.
Our IoT adjacency also passed the $1 billion threshold in Q1 and grew 48% year-over-year, driven by the growth of our core technologies for the digitization of consumer, networking, and industrial applications.
Our team continues to execute extremely well in spite of supply constraints and the continued impact of the pandemic. Our strategy is playing out largely as we expected, positioning us well to capture the rapid deployment of 5G in both the core handset industry, as well as creating new opportunities in adjacencies.
In our licensing business, our broad portfolio of foundational system-level innovations and intellectual properties across 3G, 4G, and 5G, along with valuable implementation patents is unmatched and recognized in part by having signed more than 120 5G license agreements, up from 111 license agreements last quarter.
Our continued success in licensing reflects our development of foundational technologies enabling 5G standards coupled with leadership in developing the standards themselves; leadership in developing the products necessary to implement 5G technology and leadership in enabling the industry to rapidly implement 5G seamlessly worldwide.
This process continues through the successive releases of 5G currently under development as our foundational innovations, coupled with our ability to implement 5G in products and coordinated deployment in new verticals, continues to drive progress outside the handset industry.
We continue to invest in complementary technologies that will enable the adoption of 5G use cases that will benefit consumers and businesses in a variety of industries, as well as agriculture and the advanced important social objectives of both urban and rural environments, including improvements in healthcare and education in a more widely connected future.
We have also spent the past decade deep in AI research and development, resulting in the creation of the technology necessary to scale AI across industries and products from smartphones and automotive to the IoT and data centers.
To make AI ubiquitous, we focused on making efficient hardware, algorithmic advancements, and software tools available to developers and OEMs. We believe AI will transform industries and our technologies will help accelerate the commercialization and scale of AI, making AI ubiquitous around the globe.
Our commitment to our high-performance processor roadmap was reflected in our recently announced proposed acquisition of NUVIA. We look forward to combining NUVIA's world-class CPU and technology design team with Snapdragon to enable our ecosystem of customers to redefine computing performance, drive innovation, and deliver a new class of products and experiences for the 5G era.
Just two years ago, we first announced our Snapdragon 855 mobile platform, the world's first commercial platform supporting multi-gigabit 5G and demonstrated end-to-end 5G consumer experiences with real demos over live millimeter wave 5G networks and devices.
Today, we have an expanding portfolio of differentiated 5G solutions across multiple tiers of our Snapdragon mobile platforms. With high performance basebands, advanced RF front-end designs, and leading-edge process nodes for our flagship solutions, we are well-positioned to address growing 5G demand in the handset space and across our adjacencies.
In RF, our position today is the result of executing on our strategy to extend the breadth of the products we offer. In just a few years, we have emerged as one of the largest RF suppliers in the smartphone ecosystem with a long-term roadmap supporting 4G and 5G sub-6 bands, in addition to 5G millimeter bands, enabling us to expand our RF leadership end-to-end product applications.
The automotive industry continues to change rapidly and the car is becoming more connected, more autonomous, and more electric. As these trends disrupt the industry, 5G connectivity and new experiences and user demands, such as always-connected digital cabins for infotainment, real-time navigation, and entertainment are becoming the new standard.
We are working to meet the increasing demands of safe and premium driving experiences powered by 4G LTE and 5G connected services. With integrated cellular V2X, WiFi, Bluetooth and precise positioning technologies, our 4G and 5G platforms are designed to securely connect vehicles to the cloud, each other, and the surrounding environment.
With over 150 million vehicles on the road today connected with our modems, we are a leader in automotive telematics. We are evolving our strong position in automotive telematics to a strategic industry partner building incumbency with continued innovation as the auto industry undergoes rapid transformation.
Our third-generation automotive cockpit solutions have been selected by 20 of the top-25 automakers and our recently announced fourth-generation automotive platform demonstrates our leadership in high-performance compute, computer vision, artificial intelligence, and multi-sensor processing.
Lastly, our recently announced strategic engagements with General Motors and leading Tier 1 suppliers including LG Electronics, Google, Panasonic, and Visteon are further evidence of our strong alignment with the automotive industry.
Turning to IoT, we continue to drive momentum in compute with the launch of our second-generation Snapdragon 8cx, the introduction of our commercial and educational platforms for both Windows and Chrome and continued ecosystem progress.
We are also driving industry leadership in XR with over 40 design wins and strong ecosystem momentum with global operator partnerships. We believe XR has the potential to be the next computing platform.
Our networking solutions target the full potential of Wi-Fi 6 with a blend of advanced technologies and protocols, targeting networks deployed in enterprise, venue, and prosumer applications. We are also extending our advanced Wi-Fi 6 feature profile into the 6-gigahertz spectrum with second-generation platforms.
We are capitalizing on the transformation in private and public networks, enabling millimeter-wave indoor and outdoor launches in North America and Japan with our small cell solution, bringing higher reliability and speeds to consumers, as well as providing connectivity for 5G enterprise private networks of the future.
Lastly, we are accelerating the deployment of our core technologies for digitization of non-mobile industries across retail, utilities, transportation, and manufacturing applications.
It is exciting to see the strategy we laid out several years ago playing out largely as expected and placing Qualcomm in a very strong position for Cristiano to carry the vision forward as he executes on the many opportunities in front of us over many years.
Being CEO of Qualcomm for the last seven years has been a privilege and an honor. The foundation of Qualcomm's leadership is a relentless commitment to innovating with great products, focusing on large industries with technical challenges that are hard to solve. This is what always gave me the confidence we would succeed even when it wasn't obvious and I have every confidence Cristiano shares this vision.
I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.
Akash Palkhiwala
Thank you, Steve and good afternoon everyone. We are extremely pleased to report strong results to start our fiscal year. We delivered a record first quarter with non-GAAP revenues of $8.2 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $2.17, which was above the high end of the strong guidance we provided at the beginning of the quarter. These results reflect year-over-year increases of 63% and 119% in revenues and EPS, respectively, driven by strength across QTL and QCT.
In QTL, we recorded revenues of $1.66 billion, up 18% year-over-year and EBT margins of 77%. In the December quarter, we saw a year-over-year reduction of 7% in global 3G, 4G, 5G handset shipments compared to our planning assumption of a 5% reduction, reflecting the impact of COVID and softness in the domestic China shipments.
In QCT, we delivered record results with revenues of $6.5 billion, up 32% sequentially and 81% year-over-year. These results were driven by strength across handsets, RF front-end, automotive, and IoT.
Our strong revenue growth drove EBT margins of 29%, which was above the high end of our guidance and increased 900 basis points sequentially as we realized the benefit of operating leverage.
We are also pleased with our continued diversification as we delivered record revenues in RF front-end, automotive, and IoT. RF front-end revenues of $1.1 billion more than doubled on a year-over-year basis, reflecting the strength of our broad product portfolio across all frequency bands and customers.
Automotive revenues of $212 million grew 44% year-over-year as our telematics and digital cockpit products continued to benefit from the industry rebound. In IoT, revenues grew 48% year-over-year to $1 billion across consumer, networking, and industrial applications, driven by an acceleration in demand for our products and technologies.
Our non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses of $1.78 billion was lower than our previous estimate, primarily due to the timing of certain R&D expenses within the fiscal year.
Turning to 5G adoption, we estimate approximately 225 million 5G handsets in calendar 2020 and forecast 450 million to 550 million units in calendar 2021. We are extremely pleased by the adoption of our 5G chipsets across OEM partners with over 800 designs using 5G modem and RF Solutions.
Our recently announced 5G premium tier mobile platform, the Snapdragon 888 already has over 120 design wins. We now have 5G offerings across several tiers, from our premium tier Snapdragon 888 to our recently-announced Snapdragon 480, all capable of supporting millimeter-wave.
For global 3G, 4G, 5G handsets, we estimate that shipments declined 12% on a year-over-year basis in calendar 2020. In calendar 2021, we expect total handsets to grow in high single-digits year-over-year. This assumes an impact from COVID in the first half, consistent with the exit rate of 2020 and a recovery in the second half.
In addition, QCT's addressable market will expand to include Huawei's existing share which is estimated to be approximately 16% of total handsets in 2019.
Turning to our second quarter guidance, we are forecasting revenues of $7.2 billion to $8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.55 to $1.75, a year-over-year increase of 46% and 88%, respectively at the midpoints.
In QTL, we estimate revenues of $1.25 billion to $1.45 billion and EBT margins of 66% to 70%. This is in line with normal seasonality following the strong holiday quarter and reflects the slightly lower handset forecast I previously outlined.
In QCT, we expect revenues of $6 billion to $6.5 billion, up 52% year-over-year and EBT margins of 23% to 25%, reflecting EBT dollar growth of 125% versus the year ago quarter.
Consistent with historical trends, we estimate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to be up 5% to 6% sequentially due to normal calendar year resets for certain employee-related costs.
We estimate that the pending acquisition of NUVIA will increase fiscal 2021 non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses by approximately $100 million, a portion of which is contemplated in our second quarter guidance.
Looking forward to the third fiscal quarter, we estimate QTL revenues to be in a similar range as our second quarter guidance and expect QCT earnings to double on a year-over-year basis. This forecast contemplates the current seasonality of the QCT business, following the strength in the first half of the fiscal year, which was driven by 5G flagship launches, including Apple, the holiday season, and Chinese New Year.
In addition, we are seeing demand significantly outpacing supply, given the constraints affecting the industry. Beyond the third quarter, we continue to forecast strong growth across QCT, driven by new device launches, design win traction, and strength in our adjacent platforms.
Lastly, we launched our latest annual corporate responsibility and ESG report yesterday, which is now available on our website. I'm pleased to share that we have successfully met or exceeded our 2020 goals and have disclosed 2025 targets, focused across key areas of diversity and inclusion, purposeful innovation, and reducing our carbon footprint.
We continue to respond to the expectations of our stakeholders to disclose ESG information in alignment with international standards. Before I finish my prepared remarks, I want to thank our employees for their continued hard work and focused execution.
I will now turn the call back to Mauricio.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions]
Our first question comes from Samik Chatterjee with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.
Samik Chatterjee
Hi, thanks for taking my question and before I ask my question, congratulations to both Steve and Cristiano. And so, if I can just start off with the seasonality here, I think, what you're guiding to for the QCT segment is a mid-single-digit decline in -- seasonally in revenues versus more of a mid-teens decline in QTL.
Can you just help us understand the drivers, what's causing that difference? And I think that's leading to some concerns in investors today that the sell-end of chips is greater than the sell-through base and leading to some inventory build. So, I just wanted to see if you can address that as well.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, hi, Samik, this is Akash. We are not seeing any significant inventory build in the channel. So, let me just maybe clarify that to start with. If you think about QCT -- QTL revenues sequentially from December quarter to March quarter, we've talked about seasonality in that business consistently in the past. And so our guidance really reflects that. So, it's no different than kind of the shape of the year that you generally see in the handset market and mix of OEMs being reflected in the dollar.
So, in the past, we talked about $1.7 billion midpoint going to $1.4 billion from December to March and what we are guiding is, we came in just below the midpoint in the December quarter and we're guiding similarly just below the $1.4 billion for the March quarter. So, that's the message on QTL.
On QCT, clearly with Apple now in our revenue stream, there is a different seasonality than we've had in the past and so you see kind of that becoming a factor, but when you take -- remove that, our seasonality is actually extremely strong with significant growth from December to March quarter and really strength across not just mobile platform, with the launch of our Snapdragon 888 chipset, but also across RFFE, auto, and IoT being strong as well. So, it's really strength across the board. And what you see in the numbers is the seasonality of the revenue profile showing up.
Samik Chatterjee
Yes. Got it. If I can quickly follow up, I think historically pre -- before the U.S. restrictions came into place, you've talked about Huawei not really being material in terms of contribution to earnings even though you had some MSM in your shipments there.
Do you see a likely change or any material change post the restructuring of that business where there is a part of the business sold to Honor brand and I think there are also some restructurings going on for the Huawei brand, any changes that could lead to?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, as I -- Samik, as I said in my prepared remarks, we see the Huawei market share -- Huawei portion of the market really as a significant SAM growth opportunity for us as either the share goes to other OEMs or to Honor or Huawei continues, we have an opportunity to sell into it.
So, kind of, longer term, in the second half of the year, we feel like that's a significant opportunity for us, but at this point, in our second quarter guidance there, we don't have material revenue assumed for Huawei or Honor.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Mike Walkley with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed with your question.
Mike Walkley
Great. Thanks. And, I guess, my best to Steve navigating some tough times and best wishes to Cristiano also. My question, I guess, just focusing on the margin front, really strong margins on QCT. I know there's some seasonality into Q1 and an increased cost. But given the strong margin start to the year, Akash, how should we think about margin trends over time as you leverage and harvest that 5G investment?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, so, thanks, Mike, for that question. Very happy with the QCT margins in the December quarter, I mean, really at 29% operating margins and gross margins were extremely strong as well and contributing to the strength in the operating margin profile. So, very happy to see that.
Really, when you look forward, there are a couple of factors driving our margin profile. Overall, from a gross margin perspective, there really isn't a specific trend. As we've said in the past, we feel like we have the ability to hold margins in the -- consistent with our recent history and potential upside opportunity to grow it and so we still have the same view.
And operating margin will then just become kind of something that falls out based on the revenue profile. But just kind of when you abstract out the seasonality, we're pretty happy that we set a target at the Analyst Day last -- about 15 months ago and we are on our way to meeting and exceeding what we set out.
Mike Walkley
Okay. Thank you. And then just a follow-up on the margins on the QTL side with a lot of the legal things dying down and signing over 120 5G contracts. Do you see the leverage on that side also maybe if you can reduce legal costs, or there's still high audit cost involved there? Thanks.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, Mike, from a QTL perspective, really legal costs have been at a stable lower level for the last several quarters. And so the margin profile that you're seeing kind of reflects stabilization of the legal cost and really it's about the topline revenue and focusing on kind of expanding and keeping the licensing business steady going forward.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Caso with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question. Chris, your line is live; you may proceed with your questions.
Chris Caso
Hi. Excuse me. Thank you. So, for my first question, wondered if you could address the shortages and obviously it's something we've heard from a number of others in the industry this quarter. Can you talk about the extent to it?
And in your opening remarks, you mentioned that revenue would have been higher if not for the shortages. Could you help us to quantify that some and then perhaps talk about the next couple of quarters, how that may play out if you recapture some of the business that you weren't able to ship in the December quarter and how that proceeds?
Cristiano Amon
Hi, Chris, this is Cristiano. Yes, happy to address. We have seen, I think, probably shortage across the entire industry. There is a couple of factors driving that. One is V-shaped recovery, I think, across many of the sectors that were present now. We saw acceleration of digital transformation also consistent with this trend of the enterprise transformation of their home.
And especially for Qualcomm and QCT, we have seen an opportunity with the expansion of addressable market. Huawei represent -- or it represented 16% of the market that becomes available to us across all of our OEMs.
So, that's driving a situation that demand is outpacing supply. We're happy what we see right now on the premium tier, for example. In high tier, we see share gains in fiscal 2021 and we expect the situation to normalize towards the second half of the year.
Chris Caso
Okay. Thank you. And with that, you made some comments about the fiscal third quarter, that perhaps you could clarify. First on the QTL side, you were talking about similar levels on QTL, if you can help us to reconcile that with your view of mobile handset units, I think you said growing 7% sequentially.
And then you gave us something to go on with regard to the QCT side with the profitability doubling. And I guess, with that, should we assume that would -- that profitability doubling would be at similar operating margins to what you're guiding for, for the March quarter?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, Chris, so this is Akash. I think QTL, as we've said in the past, we're going to see the market consistent between March and June quarters in terms of how the overall market -- mobile market behaves. And so that's what is reflected in the data point we provided for the June quarter.
QCT, I think it's a fair way of thinking about it. We are expecting it to be extremely strong, doubling profit year-over-year basis and margin profile is really going to kind of fallout from the scale of the revenue as we discussed earlier.
From -- just what is reflected in our third quarter numbers is just the natural seasonality of the business now that we have Apple in our revenue stream and their -- the timing of their purchases within the year is reflected in the data points we are providing.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you can give us color on the growth in RF being so impressive when you look at 5G units potentially kind of more than doubling, when you look at millimeter-wave really at one customer and one region. I'm just surprised at how robust December is and kind of can you talk to the sustainability of those revenue levels and the growth drivers going forward.
Cristiano Amon
Hi, Joe, it's Cristiano. Yes, it's very consistent to what we have been saying since the beginning of 5G. We saw 5G as an entry point for us. We have a highly differentiated solution with our modem-to-antenna platform and all of those designs. I think we updated the design count now 5G is in excess of 800 designs. They all contain 5G RF front-end components.
Also we like that it's very diversified RF front-end revenues across our customers, also with a lot of sub-6, it's not only millimeter-wave, even though we are very happy with the expansion prospects of millimeter-wave and that's definitely an accelerator for Qualcomm.
So, it's a business which is now one of the fastest growing business we have. We're happy we achieved the threshold of $1 billion and we'll continue to grow as we grow 5G.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research. Please proceed with your question.
Stacy Rasgon
Hi guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, I wanted to dig again in the chipset margin guidance. So, you're guiding chipset profit dollars down over $400 million sequentially on about $280 million revenue decline, that's like a 150% negative incremental margins. But presumably the mix ought to be getting better as Apple and the handset stuff rolls off in the adjacencies. It sounds like they grow. So, like what is going on in there? Like why are the margins coming down that much, given the revenue trajectory?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. So, a couple of factors, Stacy, its Akash. First is, as I indicated in my prepared remarks, we typically see kind of a resetting of certain expenses on the OpEx side, so you have OpEx growth that happens between the December and the March quarter. And this is consistent with history. So, if you go back and look at our numbers in the past, you kind of see the same increase. So that impacts the margin a bit.
Second is we did see some strength in certain pockets in the December quarter in our gross margin profile. So, gross margin profile was higher in the December quarter than our recent trend and what we're guiding forward is some something that's consistent with our recent trend. So, any upside to that would be something that, of course, we're going to try to execute on, but it'd be upside to our guidance.
Stacy Rasgon
Thank you. And then if I can follow-up on QTL margins. So you're guiding 68% on, whatever it is, $1.35 billion at the midpoint. In 2019, you were actually running higher than that, you were at like $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion, so lower revenues, you've had margins that were in line to higher than what you're guiding now with legal costs that presumably were higher. So, like what's going on on the QTL side, why aren't margins higher on this rev