Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ:QCOM) Q3 2020 Earnings Conference Call July 29, 2020  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan – Vice President-Investor Relations
Steve Mollenkopf – Chief Executive Officer
Akash Palkhiwala – Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Cristiano Amon – President
Alex Rogers – Executive Vice President and President-Qualcomm Technology Licensing
Conference Call Participants
Mike Walkley – Canaccord Genuity
Samik Chatterjee – JPMorgan
Chris Caso – Raymond James
Ross Seymore – Deutsche Bank
Matt Ramsay – Cowen
Tal Liani – Bank of America
Stacy Rasgon – Bernstein Research
Ashwin Gupta – Goldman Sachs
Pradeep Ramani – UBS
Brett Simpson – Arete Research
Srini Pajjuri – SMBC Nikko Securities
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm Third Quarter Fiscal 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, July 29, 2020. The playback number for today’s call is 877-660-6853. International callers, please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13706353.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today’s call will include prepared remarks by Steve Mollenkopf and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Cristiano Amon, Alex Rogers and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session.
You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com and a replay will be available on our website later today.
During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business, industry trends or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
And now to comments from Qualcomm’s, Chief Executive Officer, Steve Mollenkopf.
Steve Mollenkopf
Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Our fiscal third quarter non-GAAP earnings of $0.86 per share was above the high end of guidance, driven by strong licensing revenue and solid performance in our chipset division. We recently signed a new long-term global patent license agreement with Huawei, including a cross license granting back rights to certain of Huawei’s patents.
We also entered into an agreement settling amounts due under the prior license agreement. We are pleased to have successfully reached resolution with Huawei. As Akash will explain later, royalty revenue from Huawei begins in fiscal Q4 and is not included in our fiscal Q3 results. Alex and the QTL team have done an outstanding job in executing over 100 agreements covering 5G and building by a wide margin, the most extensive licensing program in mobile. This is a tribute to our track record of driving important and fundamental innovation. With the signing of the Huawei agreement, we are now entering a period in which we have multi-year license agreements with every major handset OEM.
Our entire company has executed very well despite the ongoing impact of COVID-19, while maintaining the safety of our employees as our highest priority. We continue to advance our product and technology roadmaps, support our customers and meet a very complex set of R&D and supply chain requirements. And the current environment has not impeded the pace of our innovation. In the last four months of work-from-home, invention disclosures are up over 30%, with 5G related invention disclosures up even more.

Turning to the handset market, fiscal Q3 was better than the expectations we shared with you last quarter. In China, just midway through the calendar year and despite the impact of COVID-19, 5G now represents the majority of domestic mobile phone shipments. According to the China Academy of Telecommunication Research, June domestic 5G smartphone shipments represented 63% of total smartphone shipments, more than double the penetration in the month of March.
Given the strength of June 5G handset data in China along with flagship 5G device launches in the second half of the calendar year. Our calendar year 2020, 5G forecast of 175 million to 225 million handsets remains unchanged, with our bias now towards the upper end of that range. As Akash will explain shortly, we are anticipating the next inflection point in our 5G ramp to start in fiscal Q4, with strong year-over-year growth in revenue and earnings per share, leaving us well positioned for continued growth in fiscal year 2021.
Turning to QCT, design win momentum remained strong. There are now over 660 designs announced or in development based on our broad portfolio of 5G solutions using Snapdragon 8 Series, 7 Series and 6 Series platforms, who are using our X55 modem, with a strong pipeline headed into next year. In the premium tier, we now have over 165 designs announced or in development from our Snapdragon 865 5G mobile platform. We recently announced our 6 Series Snapdragon 5G mobile platform, which has the potential to make 5G accessible to more than two billion smartphone users around the world.
Our systems approach to 5G RF front-end has been extremely well received. Virtually all of our 5G design wins continue to be powered by our RF front-end solutions, whether they support 5G in sub-6, millimeter wave or both. And as a consequence of our RF front-end strategy, we expect to emerge in fiscal 2021 as one of the largest global RF front-end vendors by revenue.
We remain focused on executing on the significant growth opportunities that we have in place today in the handset space. As you would expect, we are also working in parallel to position Qualcomm for similar success as 5G moves beyond smartphones. We see a significant market transition occurring as the cloud converges with 5G and AI, positioning 5G as the next evolution of the internet. This new architecture at the edge plays directly to our strengths in low-power, high-performance computing and connectivity, where Qualcomm’s wireless innovation leadership can drive new opportunities for growth, as we have in 5G enabled smartphones.
Qualcomm’s leadership in global standards bodies is an early indicator of how we are working with the mobile ecosystem to meet the high technical requirements to drive adoption of 5G to new industries. Just this month, 3GPP completed 5G New Radio Release 16, the second 5G standard that will greatly expand the reach of 5G to new services spectrum and deployments. It delivers key technologies spearheaded by Qualcomm for transforming industry, such as enhanced ultra reliable low latency, advanced power saving and high-precision positioning needed for mission-critical applications like industrial IoT.
While Release 16 is now complete, our work driving 5G technology evolution to fully realize the potential of this latest release continues. In addition, we are already working with the mobile ecosystem on Release 17 projects and are researching advanced technologies for Release 18 and beyond. We are very excited about our 5G future and our ability to commercialize the breakthrough technologies that will drive differentiation for Qualcomm over many years.
I would like to now turn the call over to Akash.
Akash Palkhiwala
Thank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. We’re extremely pleased to report strong third fiscal quarter results, demonstrating the resilience of our business in a challenging economic environment. We delivered total revenues of $4.9 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.86, which was above the high end of our guidance range, primarily driven by stronger results in QTL.

In the third quarter, we saw an approximately 20% year-over-year reduction in 3G, 4G, 5G handset shipments due to the impact of COVID-19 relative to our prior planning assumption of a 30% reduction. In addition, we saw a stronger mix with higher shipments in China and developed regions offset by weakness in emerging regions. In QTL, we delivered revenues of $1 billion, and EBT margin of 62%, both above the high end of our guidance range due to higher units and stronger regional mix.
Please note our third quarter QTL results do not include any revenues from Huawei settlement or global patent license agreement. In QCT, we delivered MSM shipments of 130 million units, revenues of $3.8 billion and EBT margin of 16%, which was at the high end of our guidance range. The impact of COVID-19 on emerging regions resulted in fewer, low tier MSM units, offset by improved gross margin as a result of favorable mix.
QCT revenues and EBT increased 7% and 20% respectively on a year-over-year basis. This performance reflects 5G design traction, RF front-end growth and strength in certain adjacent platforms that benefited from the work-from-home environment.
Our non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses of $1.68 billion were slightly below our guidance. During the third quarter, we paid $733 million in dividends, refinanced $2 billion in debt, and temporarily suspended stock buybacks.
I will now provide a financial overview of the resolution with Huawei. We expect to record approximately $1.8 billion of revenue in our fourth fiscal quarter for amounts due under the settlement agreement relating to the prior license period and the new license agreement for the first half of calendar 2020. This amount will be excluded from our non-GAAP results. Please note that this amount is consistent with the framework of our licensing program and incremental to the partial payments received from Huawei under the interim agreement in prior years.
In addition, our fourth quarter non-GAAP financial guidance includes estimated QTL revenue from Huawei sales in the September quarter. With the completion of this agreement, we have now licensed all significant handset OEMs worldwide.
Turning to the global 3G, 4G, 5G device forecast. Given the ongoing uncertainty around the timing of economic recovery, our fourth fiscal quarter forecast is based on a planning assumption of approximately 15% year-over-year reduction in handset shipments. This planning assumption reflects a gradual recovery in September quarter based on the regional trends we saw in the June quarter. Consistent with our prior expectations, our forecast for the first three quarters of 2020 implies a year-over-year reduction of approximately 10% to the calendar year, total device forecast. However, total units in the fourth quarter will depend on the speed of the economic recovery.
Lastly, we are maintaining our forecast of 175 million to 225 million units for calendar 2020 5G devices. In the June quarter, we estimate that the sell-in of 5G devices increased to greater than 50 million units. This data point is a strong leading indicator of our confidence in the 5G handset forecast for the year and our bias towards the high end of this range.
Turning to our fourth fiscal quarter financial guidance. We estimate fourth quarter GAAP revenues to be in the range of $7.3 billion to $8.1 billion and GAAP EPS of $2.12 to $2.32, which includes the revenue related to the settlement with Huawei. We expect fourth quarter non-GAAP revenues of $5.5 billion to $6.3 billion and EPS of $1.05 to $1.25. This guidance includes an impact of greater than $0.25 due to the reduction in handset shipments due to COVID-19, including a partial impact from the delay of our 5G flagship phone launch.
In QTL, we estimate fourth quarter revenues of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion and EBT margins of 67% to 71%. At the midpoint, this guidance implies year-over-year revenue growth of 12% driven by the addition of royalty revenues from Huawei, partially offset by our planning assumption of a 15% reduction in handset shipments.

In QCT, we expect MSM shipments of 145 million to 165 million units, revenues of $4.3 billion to $4.9 billion, and EBT margins of 17% to 19%. These guidance midpoints imply year-over-year growth of 27% in revenue and 66% in EBT, reflecting the strong execution of our strategy in a challenging economic environment.
As we have previously outlined, RF front-end is one of the key drivers of our revenue growth. Our fourth quarter forecast includes revenues of approximately $750 million for 4G, 5G sub-6 and 5G millimeter wave content. We anticipate fourth quarter non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to be up approximately 5% sequentially, reflecting normal seasonality in 5G investments.
In closing, I want to thank our employees, customers and suppliers for their commitment and partnership during these extraordinary circumstances. Looking forward, we are excited to have a strong foundation of growth across our product and licensing businesses.
Thank you. And I’ll now turn the call back to Mauricio.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are ready for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of Mike Walkley with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed with your question.
Mike Walkley
Great, thanks for taking my question, and congrats on the strong results in a tough environment and the Huawei settlement. My question is just helping us understand your revenue per MSM trends going forward. You highlighted in 2021, you expect to be the revenue leader in RF, obviously, that could take up the revenue per MSM and then you should have a much greater mix of 5G phones over time. So, as we look out in the future quarters, how should we think about the pluses and minuses on a revenue per MSM calculation? Thank you very much.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, hi Mike, this is Akash. If you look at our trend over the last couple of quarters, on a revenue per MSM perspective, we were just over $31 in the second fiscal quarter. And then we reported a little over $28 in the June quarter and we’re guiding a similar number over $29 in the upcoming September quarter. The premise behind the growth in the revenue per MSM is still consistent with what we had said before, which is as we transition from 4G to 5G, we expect our revenue opportunity to grow by 1.5 times. And so as we look forward, we still think that’s kind of a reasonable way of thinking about the trend on revenue per MSM long-term. And I think these quarters where we have delivered the results with higher numbers kind of bear out the math behind it.
Mike Walkley
Right. And maybe just a quick follow-up, is there any seasonality to those type numbers based on mix of premier smartphones that we should think about in modeling kind of those trend lines?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, sure. There will be a little bit of a seasonality based on when our premium tier chipset launches and which is typically we go heavy on volume on the premium tier in the March quarter. So there will always be some seasonality, but I think overall the trend that the last few quarters suggest is a reasonable way of thinking about it.
Cristiano Amon
Hey, Mike, this is Cristiano. I just want to add one thing maybe to help you understand it. We may have seen over the short period of time as we look at where the market is given the pandemic, we feel good about 5G units. But when you think about trends, thinking about the 1.5 metric, the more the 5G penetrates into the handset base, I think more that helps our trend of increasing the revenue per MSM. And I think we still have a lot of 4G units out there. We like that accelerated transition to 5G.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Samik Chatterjee with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Samik Chatterjee
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I guess just maybe first off if I could try and understand the MSM unit guidance here and the improvement. It would help if you can kind of unpack it for me a bit in terms of what’s the normal kind of market recovery in terms of the sequential improvement that you’re thinking of? And then what’s – I know you mentioned the delay in the product launch, but what are you assuming in terms of the product launch in that sequential improvement that you have of roughly kind of 15 million at the low end and 35 million at the high end. So how much of that is a market recovery and how much of that is the product launch?
Akash Palkhiwala
Sure, Samik, this is Akash. So the midpoint that we’re guiding is 155 million units relative to June quarter actuals of 130 million. So, I’ll try to address it around the midpoint. There are really two drivers for the increase. The first one is, we saw some weakness in the low-tier units in the June quarter because of the impact of COVID on emerging markets. So, we are seeing that come back in as we look at the forward demand that we’re seeing from our customers, so that drives growth on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
And then second, we talked about partial impact from a delay of our 5G flagship phone launch. If you think about a large flagship phone launch, typically for a QCT perspective, our customers end up buying chipsets that facilitate the launch in the couple of months before the launch. So what we’re really seeing here is because of the delay, a portion of those purchases are happening in the September quarter and they’re factored into our guidance and another portion would get pushed out to the December quarter. So it’s a combination of those things. And so going back to answering your direct question, the increase from 130 million to 155 million is really two drivers, increase in units especially at a low-tier and then benefit from the new launch.
Samik Chatterjee
Okay, got it. And then if I can just follow-up on the restrictions in place here to Huawei right now, is there an impact on the MSM unit guidance from that? And then with the licensing agreement that you now have, does this potentially open up an opportunity to even kind of ramp up your chip shipments to them in the future if in the absence of high silicon being able to kind of provide them the chipsets that are required for their 5G handsets?
Akash Palkhiwala
So, Samik, I’ll address the first part of the question. At this point, we really don’t have any material business with Huawei. So, when you think about our MSM unit guidance, there really isn’t Huawei volume around it, it’s really the other OEMs that we would be shipping to.
Steve Mollenkopf
Yes, this is Steve. On the second – the second part of the question, I think the way to think about it is, we’re working hard to figure out how to sell to every OEM including Huawei, but really nothing to report as of yet.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Caso with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.
Chris Caso
Yes, thank you. First question is on QTL and there’s a lot of moving parts as we go into September with Huawei coming in the global handset decline, excuse me, and the timing of the flagship. In the past, you’ve given us some metrics about what the normalized QTL revenue run rate would be. Is that something you could provide us now if I normalize for all of those exceptional events that are happening now, once I put Huawei in? And maybe you can give us some indication because of those changes this quarter, how much Huawei contributes to QTL in the September quarter?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. Hi, Chris. This is Akash. Let me try to give you a few data points that I think will help with your triangulation. Historically, as we’ve guided our revenue range for QTL, we’ve said for the first three calendar quarters, a number of $1.1 billion is a reasonable range and then for the December quarter somewhere in the $1.4 billion range. That’s kind of our run rate before two key factors. First factor is really the impact of COVID on our guidance. So in the June quarter, we came in a little over $1 billion in revenue in QTL, with a market that was 20% lower on the handset side from a year-over-year perspective. So 20% reduction year-over-year. And we came in a little over $1 billion against a normalized run rate of $1.1 billion.

When you look forward what we’re guiding is a midpoint of $1.3 billion and really there are two factors, right, Huawei coming in and increasing that number and a little bit of a decline based on a 15% market weakness that we’re assuming. So, I think between those numbers, you should be able to triangulate what a normalized run rate is. The key thing for us is just not having insight into COVID going forward and how the recovery happens. So for now we’re guiding the September quarter, but as we proceed, we’ll look to give guidance into the normalized run rate.
Chris Caso
Well, that’s very helpful. Thank you. As a follow-up to that, with regard to QTL margins, you’ve given guidance for this quarter also. So what should we expect going forward on that? I’m assuming that the new Huawei revenue was all incremental, there’s no cost associated with that. So is this a reasonable margin run rate at least for the first three quarters of the year, I suppose it would go higher as you went to the seasonally stronger December quarter.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, Chris, you’re correct, on the revenue really falling down to the bottom line from a Huawei perspective, so that’s an accurate assumption. I think at the Analyst Day last year, we provided our view on kind of longer-term sustainable margins for QTL, where we said a midpoint of 70% and with Huawei it would be slightly higher than that. So, I don’t believe there is any change to that point of view. I think we still think those are good reasonable numbers to use to model our business going forward.
Chris Caso
Got it. Very helpful, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.
Ross Seymore
Hi, guys, thank you so much. So, let me ask the question and congrats on the Huawei settlement. Akash, you mentioned earlier in the call about the gross margin within QCT performing well. Can you go in a little bit deeper into that and really what I want to get into is, it doesn’t seem like there is a great correlation between the revenue per MSM and the gross margin in the QCT side of things. And given that that revenue per MSM line could be moving all over the place in the next couple of quarters, given some of these flagship launches, I want to understand the relationship between those two dynamics better.
Akash Palkhiwala
Sure, Ross. So let me – let me kind of maybe quickly talk through what happened in the June quarter. What we saw was versus our guidance of mid-point of 135 million units for the MSM, we saw some weakness at the low-tier. And what I referred to in my script was because of the fewer low-tier units that was driven by COVID impact on emerging markets, we saw higher revenue per MSM and a higher gross margin as a result of it. So, they both moved in concert at the same time and in same direction.
As we look forward to the September quarter, what we are implying in terms of guidance for our gross margin is more in line with what we had guided for the June quarter, because we expect the lower-end units to come back into our mix and really from a margin perspective, it’s very consistent with what we’ve outlined, pretty strong margin profile going forward.
Cristiano Amon
Yes. And Ross, I think it’s – this is Cristiano, consistent with, I think, the conversation we had before about revenue per MSM, as some of those low 4G units starts to get replaced by 5G units and we go into the future quarters, continue to see accelerated 5G penetration, that’s going to be also a good driver for gross margin improvement in QCT.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Ramsay with Cowen. Please proceed with your question.
Matt Ramsay
Thank you very much, guys and congrats on the Huawei deal from myself as well. A couple of questions, Akash. The first one is on opEx. You talked about it being up with 5G investments and other things. Maybe, you could give us a little bit of context as to whether the September quarter number is a realistic run rate going forward as I know opEx had – cost controls have been top of mind given COVID and given some of the QTL things that have happened in the last few years, so that’s one. And then the second one is on the settlement – the back payments from the settlement, there is a big sort of cash payment coming in to you guys from Huawei, any thoughts of use of that cash. Thank you.

Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. Hi, Matt. So, on your first question, really what we’re guiding is a 5% increase in OpEx quarter-over-quarter. If you look at our historical trend, what we’ve seen between these two quarters, as an example last year, we saw an increase of 4% when you adjust the June quarter for the variable compensation related to the Apple deal. So, what we’re guiding is really consistent with our historical trend. There is a little bit of an increase and extra 1% increase just because of timing of 5G investments.
When you pull back and kind of look at the whole year, we will end up total opEx of $6.8 billion, very consistent with what we told you at the Analyst Day and our forecast for the year. So, we really think of opEx as consistent with our previous commitments and it’s super important for us to continue to manage opEx well and deliver operating leverage as we grow revenues.
And then on the second question, on the $1.8 billion, what we have is – Huawei is going to pay us $1.8 billion for historical periods and it’s a combination of two things; really, it’s the settlement agreement, which goes through the end of 2019 and add to it the first six months of 2020 through June. The combined total of that is $1.8 billion. And so that some – that’s an amount that they’re going to pay over a one-year period with the first payment due in the September quarter.
Matt Ramsay
Got it. Thank you. Just a quick follow-up for Cristiano or I guess for Steve as well. You guys talked about being the view of 2020 5G units now being maybe, at the upper end of the range. And if you put that against a major global launch that might be pushed slightly. Was all of that maybe, incremental confidence in upside in 5G units in China or are there other markets that we should be thinking about that are now ramping 5G units with some – with some visibility? Thank you.
Cristiano Amon
Hi, Matt. this is Cristiano. Well, look, there is an overall I think confidence in 5G. If you look at the comment made by Akash in the quarter, I think we saw a better mix than we originally expected, which is offsetting weakness in the emerging markets and mostly 4G low-tier units. What we saw is better units on developed markets, which is just a result of 5G. Traction 5G continues to be high. We now have over 80 commercial networks in 35 countries. We have a large number of operators now 380, 120 of which are working on millimeter wave and our design to traction jumped to 660 designs now on 5G. So, 5G momentum has not slowed down and it’s giving us confidence on the estimate we made for the year.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Tal Liani with Bank of America. Please proceed with your question.
Tal Liani
Great, thank you. It’s actually a follow-up on the previous answer. When you look at the U.S. and Europe and other places, can you give us a sense of how much of the launches are planned to be with millimeter wave? And then when it – do you have an estimate of your market share within millimeter wave, kind of, if you look at the global – at the globe, how much do you think you’re capturing of this market initially? Thanks.
