Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ:QCOM) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call November  4, 2020  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan - Vice President-Investor Relations
Steve Mollenkopf - Chief Executive Officer
Akash Palkhiwala - Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Cristiano Amon - President
Conference Call Participants
Mike Walkley - Canaccord Genuity
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan
Matt Ramsay - Cowen
Chris Caso - Raymond James
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Blayne Curtis - Barclays
Ross Seymore - Deutsche Bank
Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research
Mitch Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Rod Hall - Goldman Sachs
C.J. Muse - Evercore
Timothy Arcuri - UBS
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded November 4, 2020. The playback number for today's call is 877-660-6853, international callers please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13711766.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan. Please go ahead.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Steve Mollenkopfl and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Cristiano Amon, Alex Rogers and Don Rosenberg will join the question and answer session.
You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com and a replay will be available on our website later today. During the call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. And you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements include projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements, please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K once filed which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
And now to comments from Qualcomm's Chief Executive Officer, Steve Mollenkopf.
Steve Mollenkopf
Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Fiscal 2020 was an extraordinary year, presenting both a unique set of opportunities as well as challenges. We achieved a number of significant accomplishments including scaling 5G devices globally with our partners, while navigating the sudden onset of the global pandemic. In March with the safety of our employees as our top priority, we rapidly aligned our operations to a completely different work environment. We were able to limit the number of onsite essential workers, while simultaneously executing on product commitments and driving our business forward.
The challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic highlight the critical importance of our technology and products. I want to thank our 41,000 Qualcomm team members for their steadfast commitment to our mission of inventing and commercializing breakthrough wireless technologies.
As you can see from our results, the early stages of the 5G ramp are well underway with our strategy playing out largely as expected. We delivered Q4 non-GAAP revenues of $6.5 billion and a record non-GAAP earnings of $1.45 per share, representing year-over-year growth of 35% and 86%, respectively. Both exceeding the high end of our guidance.
QCT revenues of $5 billion were up 38% year-over-year. It's worth noting that our Q4 QCT revenue a new record included only a partial quarter impact from a large US OEM customer. This strong result demonstrates the breadth of our customer traction. While our transition from a 4G leader to a 5G leader was faced with numerous challenges, our employees remained focus throughout.

Since January 2016 confident in our ability to execute on the upcoming 5G ramp, we spent $30 billion to retire 25% of our shares at an average price of approximately $64.50, amplifying the benefits of the organic growth you are seeing today.
As you can see in our results, we have successfully commercialized our innovation leadership in our product business through a combination of higher dollar share of content combined with significant 5G design wins with leading OEMs around the world.
Our foundational 5G innovations unmatched patent portfolio and ecosystem collaborations enable us to drive the industry forward to facilitate the rapid global adoption of 5G. Our continued innovation drive success and stability in our licensing business. All major handset OEMs are under license and we now have over 110 5G agreements.
In fiscal '20, our focus on innovation continued at an accelerated pace despite COVID-19 challenges. Year-over-year invention disclosures were up over 60% and 5G related invention disclosures more than doubled. We continue to drive innovation advances in 5G through releases '17, '18 and beyond, which will enable the adoption of wireless technology broadly beyond smartphones and into other industries.
We have sustained this focus despite unwarranted legal challenges and we now look forward to continuing our decades-long commitment to fundamental transformative innovation. Over the years, we have built strong portfolios in several key areas that converge with and enable wireless systems and applications, such as multimedia, security and artificial intelligence. Our proven ability to invent and commercialize leading technologies is the foundation of how we drive long-term value for our stockholders.
The early success of our 5G rollout is a great testament to our strategy of investing well in advance of these large opportunities. 5G represents the single largest opportunity in our history, creating new opportunities to extend our leadership. This will continue to play out over many years as wireless disruption will impact many industries. As an example, several years ago, we identified RF as a unique transition opportunity to address many of the technical challenges of delivering a 5G experience. I am particularly proud of how the team has executed against this opportunity, creating a leadership position in a short period of time.
In fiscal '20, we delivered $2.4 billion of RF front-end revenue, up 60% year-over-year. Qualcomm is now one of the largest RF suppliers with design wins across all our premium-tier smartphone customers and with a long-term roadmap to continue to grow our RF leadership, as 5G is adopted in other industries.
Our 5G design wins continue to be powered by our RF front-end solutions, whether they support 4G, sub-6, millimeter wave or both 5G bands and whether they are in smartphones or other products such as embedded modules for PCs, IoT solutions or mobile hotspots. As we have in RF, we have built beachhead positions in both auto and IoT. Our scale enables us to make multiple profitable bets in areas we expect a tailwind as each of these industry roadmaps adopts cellular technologies.
As you can see taking place today in automotive, where we have emerged as a strategic technology partner through the automotive industry, with nearly all the major OEMs adopting our products. Next-generation 5G telematics design wins in addition to our 3G and 4G design wins solidify our position as a leader in connected cars. We are also extending our mobile RF front-end leadership into automotive, where 100% of our next-generation 5G and a majority of our next generation 4G telematics design wins include our automotive-qualified RF front-end products.
In addition, our digital cockpit solutions now in the third generation enable best-in-class capabilities across premium, mid and entry tier solutions. Our automotive design win pipeline is now approximately $8 billion, up from almost $6.5 billion at the start of the fiscal year, giving us great visibility into meeting the long-term revenue targets we provided at our Analyst Day last November.

The automotive industry is transforming at an unprecedented rate and we are incredibly well-positioned to lead the industry with a long-term opportunity to expand our dollar share of content in auto as we have done in smartphones.
Turning to IoT, we are extending our IP investments from across the Company into our portfolio of connected and non-connected products with a broad portfolio of technologies, including connectivity, lower power processing, and security. We are also diversified across multiple product areas and industry verticals as we have nearly 13,000 customers.
In fiscal '20, we saw better-than-anticipated performance in IoT with strong revenue growth driven largely by demand in networking, retail, industrial, tracking and utilities verticals. Our high-performance WiFi solutions continue to drive WiFi access point toward record levels. And looking forward, our WiFi continues to evolve, our execution on WiFi 6E has put Qualcomm into a leadership position.
We've also brought wearable solutions to our smartphone OEMs, as well as the broader ecosystem of consumer product companies. Our inventions, technology and roadmap have also enabled us to establish a leadership position in XR. With over 30 commercial devices are Snapdragon XR solutions that connect physical and digital spaces or the consumer and enterprise platforms of choice. We have been driving the cost and performance curve of low-power high-performance compute since our first launch of the Snapdragon in 2007.
We are also investing in next-generation infrastructure and edge compute, two areas today that we believe will create significant opportunities in several years. Our objective is to provide technology differentiation that will enable us to achieve a leadership position. As the cloud converges with the mobile Internet, wireless networks are transforming and becoming virtualized. Beyond the cost and operational benefits for service providers, virtualization is enabling new service provider models, where infrastructure is intersecting with digital services such as you have seen with Rakuten and Jio.
Turning to inference, with over 10 years of AI R&D and over 1 billion AI-capable devices enabled with our technology and fundamental assets such as low power compute, process node leadership and signal processing expertise, we are well-positioned to extend our smartphone AI leadership into growing applications such as data centers, edged appliances and 5G infrastructure.
Building on our modem and RF expertise, we recently announced our new 5G RAN platform offerings. These platforms will provide foundational technology for high-performance infrastructure and will accelerate the cellular ecosystem transition towards virtualized and interoperable Radio Access Networks, a trend driven by 5G.
Our expanded portfolio which is scalable from macro to micro sites will include integrated support for 5G millimeter wave and sub-6 gigahertz spectrum across all key global bands. Together with our partners, we are helping to drive the vRAN transition with commercial products expected by calendar year 2023.
In summary, with leading technology and intellectual property, a differentiated product roadmap and 5G, we are well-positioned for a multi-year growth opportunity.
I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.
Akash Palkhiwala
Thank you, Steve, and good afternoon everyone. We are extremely pleased to report another strong quarter to conclude a challenging year in which we remained resilient and achieved several key business milestones.
Our fourth fiscal quarter non-GAAP results came in above the high end of our guidance range for revenue and EPS, driven by strong performance in both QTL and QCT. We delivered non-GAAP revenues of $6.5 billion and record EPS of $1.45 with year-over-year increases of 35% and 86%, respectively.

We delivered GAAP revenues of $8.3 billion and EPS of $2.58. As a reminder, these results include the benefit related to prior periods from our recent licensing and settlement agreements with Huawei.
In the fourth quarter, we saw a year-over-year reduction of approximately 5% in global 3G, 4G, 5G handset shipments relative to our prior planning assumption of a 15% reduction. The upside was driven by a strong rebound in emerging markets, following the impact of COVID-19 on handset demand in previous quarters.
In QTL, we delivered revenues of $1.5 billion and EBT margin of 73% both above the high end of our guidance range. This upside was driven by higher global handset shipments and a favorable OEM mix.
In QCT, we delivered strong results with MSM shipments of 162 million units, revenues of $5 billion, which was above the high end of our guidance range. We are pleased to report EBT margins of 20%, achieving the long-term target we had provided at our 2019 Analyst Day.
QCT revenues and EBT increased 38% and 103%, respectively on a year-over-year basis, driven by strength in handsets, RF front-end, automotive and IoT.
RF front-end revenues of $852 million were higher than our prior guidance of $750 million, reflecting design traction across major handset OEMs. In automotive, we saw sequential revenue growth of 36%, to $188 million as our telematics, connectivity and digital cockpit products benefited from the industry rebound.
In IoT, increased demand for connected devices due to the work from home environment drove 21% sequential revenue growth to $926 million. We're excited about our opportunities in this growing industry segment.
I will now summarize the results for fiscal 2020. Despite the challenging economic environment due to COVID-19, we achieved non-GAAP revenues of $21.7 billion, and EPS of $4.19, up 12% and 18%, respectively, versus fiscal 2019. In addition, we executed on several key milestones, including the completion of long-term license agreements, acceleration of 5G and RF front-end design traction and building a platform for long-term growth in automotive and IoT.
Turning to 5G handsets, we are pleased to see that all major handset OEMs have now commercialized 5G smartphones, many of which are using our modem to antenna system solution, including millimeter-wave for select regions.
In total, we now have over 700 5G designs announced or in development. We are maintaining our bias towards the high end of our previous forecast of 175 million to 225 million units for calendar 2020 5G handsets. In calendar 2021, we are forecasting 450 to 550 5G handsets, a year-over-year growth of 150% at the midpoint.
For our global 3G, 4G, 5G handset forecast, we are using a planning assumption of approximately 5% decline versus calendar 2019 for the December quarter and for calendar 2021. This estimate is consistent with the impact we saw in the September quarter. This implies year-over-year growth of high-single digits for total handsets in calendar 2021.
I will now outline our decision to provide enhanced QCT revenue disclosures going forward.
Starting with this quarter's results, we are providing revenue breakout by handsets, RF front-end, automotive and IoT. With this change, we will not provide MSM guidance or actuals going forward. This disclosure will allow tracking of our progress for each of these categories as 5G expands our growth opportunity outside mobile. In addition, this change is consistent with the framework we outlined at our 2019 Analyst Day. Please refer to our Investor Relations website for additional detail and historical revenue breakout.
Turning to our first fiscal quarter guidance. We are forecasting strong earnings with revenues of $7.8 billion to $8.6 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.95 to $2.15, a year-over-year increase of 62% and 107% respectively at the midpoint.

In QTL, we are estimating revenues of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion and EBT margin of 74% to 78%, reflecting a sequential increase due to flagship handset launches and holiday seasonality. In QCT, we estimate revenues of $6.2 billion to $6.8 billion, up 80% year-over-year at the midpoint, driven by growth across handsets, RF front-end, automotive and IoT. We expect QCT EBT margins to be between 25% and 27%, reflecting an EBT increase of $1.2 billion versus the year-ago period. Lastly, we anticipate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to be up approximately 2% sequentially.
Looking forward to the second fiscal quarter, based on the handset assumptions I previously outlined and the seasonal decline after the holidays, we estimate QTL revenues to be in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion. In QCT following the launch of a flagship 5G handset, we now expect second quarter seasonality to be consistent with QTL and global handset shipments. As a reminder, non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses are typically higher in the second fiscal quarter as it includes the normal calendar year reset for certain employee-related costs.
For the second half of fiscal 2021, we expect the quarterly profile for both our QTL and QCT businesses to be consistent with the seasonality of the global handset shipments. Lastly, for each quarter in fiscal 2021, we are forecasting net interest expense of approximately $125 million, weighted average shares outstanding of 1.15 billion and a non-GAAP annual effective tax rate of 14%.
Before I finish my prepared remarks, I want to thank our employees for their contribution throughout this unprecedented year. In fiscal 2021, we are focused on delivering revenue growth and operating leverage in line with the financial targets we outlined at our 2019 Analyst Day. We remain focused on executing on our 5G roadmap and commercializing breakthrough technologies that will drive growth for many years.
Thank you. I'll now turn the call back to Mauricio.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are ready for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mike Walkley with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed with your question.
Mike Walkley
Greater. Thanks for -- thanks for taking my questions. I hope everybody's well on the call. Just a question on the EBT margins, very strong implied guidance for the seasonally strong Q4, but you also highlighted some investment for growth in new areas. How should we think just about trends in terms of margins for QTL and QCT as you harvest 5G investments? And in QTL, perhaps your lower legal expenses and maybe see some higher margins there. Thank you.
Akash Palkhiwala
Hi, Mike. This is Akash. Really from a margin perspective, we are extremely happy first of all to deliver the 20% margin in QCT in the September quarter. I mean that's -- we have guided a midpoint of 18% and we are happy to see us get to that target a quarter sooner than we had anticipated. As you saw, we are guiding strength going into the December quarter as well with the midpoint that's at 26% in QCT. As we go forward, one of the things that you have to keep in mind is just the seasonality of the businesses. If -- let me address QTL and then QCT again. For QTL, seasonally strong quarter in December, given kind of the handset launches that happened and then overall holiday impact. As you go beyond that, we've provided a guidance of -- for the March quarter, so that will give you a second data point. And then really between those data points and our actuals for September, you'll be able to forecast kind of the rest of the year. From a margin perspective, we had given guidance at Analyst Day and that contemplated how our financials would play out in QTL. So it's very consistent with that. So we don't really have an update relative to that guidance point.

For QCT, as you think about the December quarter guidance, again, a very strong quarter seasonally now with the launch of flagship 5G handset with our chip in it. It drives our -- December quarter is very strong. The seasonality of the business changes though with this launch and what happens is when you look at -- it's different than the last couple of years, you almost have to go back three or four years, where typically, we saw a decline of 15% in revenues between first quarter and second quarter in QCT just based on seasonality. And so we'll be reconciled more to that seasonality going forward. From a margin perspective, strong margin in QCT in first quarter and then really the margin will change based on the profile of the revenue as we move forward.
Mike Walkley
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Samik Chatterjee with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.
Samik Chatterjee
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question and congrats on the results, strong results here. I just wanted to start off, I have a couple of questions. Wanted to start off on the RF content, which you -- on smartphones, which you clearly outlined is doing better than you expected, just based on the visibility you have into the pipeline in fiscal '21. How should we think about either meeting or even exceeding the targets you outlined for RF on smartphone. I think it was about $3.5 billion of revenue that you outlined at the Analyst Day. If you can just share your thoughts on that and I have a follow up?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. Hi, Samik, it's Akash again. So I think from a guidance perspective for RF front-end, as you'll recall at Analyst Day, we said we expect to be more than 20% share in an $18 billion market and that target was really for fiscal '22 and we're very happy with the way our RF front-end business has played out, we are seeing, seeing a lot of strength, not just in the quarter we reported and the forward quarter, but just really in the long term design win pipeline across the board. So we're very optimistic that we'll be able to get to -- get to our target sooner, but really beyond that, we are not updating kind of our longer-term guidance at this point.
Cristiano Amon 
Hi, Samik. It's Cristiano. Just one quick comment for you. The -- as we increase the number of designs to 680, the trend continues, we see 5G prior to front end attached to some of those designs, so we feel pretty good about the pipeline, continue to grow that business.
Samik Chatterjee
All right. And if I could just follow up, obviously, there's been a lot of changes in the environment here with the current restrictions on Huawei smartphone business or kind of the restrictions impacting that, how should I think about how that is impacting results right now? Is it proving in your kind of view to be a headwind to industry volumes or kind of our -- competitors to Huawei ordering more, that's kind of helping results. How should I think about the impact?
Cristiano Amon 
Thanks for the question, Samik. This is Cristiano. So as you know, right now, we -- as we don't have a license to sell products to Huawei, we're not selling to Huawei. The way you should think about this and consistent to what we haven't [ph] said on the last earnings call, the Huawei opportunity creates an expansion of addressable market for QCT. We feel fully hedged in our position given our very high traction with all the premium and high tier OEMs, and whether that in the long run, it's an opportunity with Huawei, n the event that we receive a license or if an opportunity for our customers, we actually see that is a net positive in the expansion of TAM [ph] for QCT and we expect that to play out as we look at demand in the handset towards 2021.
Operator

Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Ramsay with Cowen. Please proceed with your question.
Matt Ramsay
Yes. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. Akash, I guess, maybe this question is for you and Cristiano partly, really appreciate the additional disclosures in QTL or in QCT rather, maybe you could talk about given the magnitude of the upside to the outlook for the December quarter. And just help us a little bit to break down that upside in the chip business by maybe units and then also RF versus maybe core ASPs and units in the modem business. If you could just sort of give us some help there just given the magnitude of the upside and the change in the disclosures, just so we can all foot model that at least for this first quarter out of the gate? Thank you.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. Hi, Matt. So, let me just kind of quickly run through the disclosure change. What we really wanted to do was over the last couple of years our business has evolved a bit and so we are seeing a different set of drivers for revenue growth than units and so it's driven by obviously 4G to 5G transition, driving more content, RF front-end and then automotive and IoT playing a key role in our growth as well. And so the goal with it was to give data points that will allow the investors to track our progress in this area, and then again, it's very consistent with how we outlined our business at Analyst Day. And then that's kind of the core thought process behind it.
As you see in the September quarter, we've given a disclosure on the breakdown, a lot of strength across each of those areas, you've seen a strong growth in IoT which was driven by a demand for connected devices and in the home and as kind of the work from home environment permits, there is just an increasing need for connectivity. And then we also saw a rebound on the auto side, that drove significant strength. As we look forward, all of those trends are holding for us, so we expect kind of a similar strength going into next quarter for each of those areas. We are obviously not providing a breakdown of our forecast, we are providing it at the total QCT level. But the underlying strength really all those drivers remain looking forward.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Chris Caso with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.
Chris Caso
Yes, thank you. I guess, first question was with regard to QTL, and I guess the results for the September quarter and the guidance for the December quarter is above what the sort of normal levels that you've referred to before. So -- and I guess, what you're talking about for the March quarter is as well. Is this sort of a new normal level for the QTL business going forward and if you could explain why that's the case and the permanence of this level of revenue?
Akash Palkhiwala
Sure. So, Chris, As you will recall, in the March quarter, the market was down approximately 21%, because of the impact of COVID and June quarter was 20%. Our forecast, our planning assumption going into the September quarter was down 15% and really what happened is, we saw a rebound especially in emerging markets, we're following a couple quarters of lower demand because of COVID, the demand went up and we ended the quarter down approximately 5%. So that was kind of the key driver for our performance in the September quarter. And in addition, we saw a stronger OEM mix that helped QTL a bit as well. So that's kind of the data point for our results for the September quarter at $1.5 billion. Our forward guidance of $1.7 billion midpoint for QTL is really kind of just projecting that same market impact, the 5% market impact that we saw year-over-year in the September quarter projecting it forward into the December quarter, and then into the March quarter and that's the basis for the numbers we provided.

As you think about kind of the full year forecast for it -- for QTL, using the September quarter number along with the December quarter and the March quarter guidance, that's a good way to project a year.
Chris Caso
Got it. Thank you. A follow-up question is on the RF front-end business. And if you could provide some color now, I know that millimeter-wave is an important part of that business for you, it's something you've talked about a lot. Could you help us to quantify how much millimeter-wave has been contributing to the RF front-end business, sort of what's the content increase that you're anticipating for millimeter-wave? And then now that we've seen millimeter-wave kind of do what you said in terms of being a must-have on flagship handsets, what's the potential for that proliferating around the world to becoming a must-have in other geographies?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. So, Chris, I'll take the first part of the question and then Cristiano can follow up. Just from a breakdown of technologies across our RF front-end revenue base, we are obviously not providing that, but you should not really think of our revenue being driven by millimeter-wave, we have a broad portfolio of technologies, 4G, 5G sub-6 and 5G millimeter-wave and our design traction reflects the strength of our portfolio. So it's really across all those technologies.
Cristiano Amon 
Yes. So, this is Cristiano. So first I want to just build on what Akash had said, we're even starting to win some 4G content in RF front-end as well in especially some of the sub-6 frequency started to get converted into 5G, so we're excited about I think how broad of -- and diverse