Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ:QCOM) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call April 28, 2021  4:45 PM ET
Company Participants
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan – Vice-President-Investor Relations
Steve Mollenkopf – Chief Executive Officer
Cristiano Amon – President and Chief Executive Officer-Elect
Akash Palkhiwala – Chief Financial Officer
Alex Rogers – Executive Vice President and President-Qualcomm Technology Licensing
Conference Call Participants
Mike Walkley – Canaccord Genuity
Chris Caso – Raymond James
Joe Moore – Morgan Stanley
Stacy Rasgon – Bernstein Research
Blayne Curtis – Barclays
Ross Seymore – Deutsche Bank
Matt Ramsay – Cowen
Samik Chatterjee – JPMorgan
Rod Hall – Goldman Sachs
Timothy Arcuri – UBS
C.J. Muse – Evercore
Brett Simpson – Arete Research
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Qualcomm Second Quarter and Fiscal 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, April 28, 2021. The playback number for today’s call is 877-660-6853. International callers, please dial 201-612-7415. The playback reservation number is 13718356.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice-President of Investor Relations. Mr. Lopez-Hodoyan, please go ahead.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today’s call will include prepared remarks by Steve Mollenkopf, Cristiano Amon, and Akash Palkhiwala. In addition, Alex Rogers, and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session. You can access our earnings release and the slide presentation that accompanies this call on our Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com and a replay will be available on our website later today.
During the call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. And you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry trends, or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements. Please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent 10-K, which contains important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
And now to comments from Qualcomm’s Chief Executive Officer, Steve Mollenkopf.
Steve Mollenkopf
Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. When we reported Q2 just one year ago, we were in the early stages of the pandemic. Much has happened since then, including many things that will define our future well beyond this past year. One of the undeniable things we have experienced and at an accelerated pace is the importance and reliance global citizens have on robust connectivity and the need for low power, high-performance devices. This has reinforced and amplified our mission.
Sitting here in San Diego today, we are optimistic about what we see on the horizon, yet while the pandemic impacted nearly everyone at the same time last year, the experience today is very different depending on where you are in the world. In particular, I want to acknowledge our employees, customers, and partners in India. You and your families are in our thoughts and we are here to support you through this very challenging time.
Of the many things that have impressed me during my 26-year career at Qualcomm, at the top of the list is how our company mobilized in the past year leading to strong results like we reported today. Our fiscal second quarter non-GAAP earnings of $1.90 per share exceeded the high end of our guidance driven by higher licensing revenues and solid performance in our chipset business, representing non-GAAP revenue and EPS year-over-year growth of 52% and 116%, respectively.
Despite the backdrop of a challenging environment, these results and our guidance reflect the strength of the company and the importance of our technologies, not only to the mobile industry, but across many industries. Several years ago, we put in place a strategy to lead in 5G, which today is delivering results beyond our expectations. Even this fiscal year, with all the unusual challenges, we are on track to deliver results better than what we expected when we started the fiscal year.
As exciting as our current performance is, I cannot underestimate the long-term opportunity for Qualcomm and how well-positioned the company is, where we have a unique opportunity to exceed our success in handsets as industries adopt the wireless roadmap. This enviable position is what I find most rewarding when looking back over the past seven years. Undeniably over my tenure as CEO, I dealt with and overcame unprecedented challenges, which I always put in perspective. Our mission and singular focus of inventing breakthrough technologies, transforming how the world connects, computes and communicates is important and hard to do. Our challenges tightened our focus on this mission and at the core innovation was always the solution. As a result, Qualcomm enters the 5G era with our whole company stronger and more resilient.
Most importantly, we never lost focus on the impact and opportunity digitization will bring to our customers, partners, governments and consumers worldwide as a result of our collective efforts. Speaking as a soon-to-be former CEO, I believe there is virtually no limit on where Cristiano can lead Qualcomm, the industries he can enter and the role the company can play in the global ecosystem. I am very excited to watch this play out. To all our employees, I thank you for your tireless devotion and commitment to our strong culture and core values. I know it is very exciting for everyone at Qualcomm to witness how our inventions change the lives of billions of people around the world as we know they will.
Thank you. I will now turn the call over to Cristiano.
Cristiano Amon
Thank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. The quarter in guide reflect the great execution across the company in a very challenging environment and reinforces the significance of our technologies. Our Snapdragon premium and high-tier products along with our modem-to-antenna RF front-end are the foundation of our 5G handset strategy now and into the future. The expansion of our addressable market in this smartphone tiers has positioned the Snapdragon 800 tier as synonymous with Android flagship mobile experiences.
We continue to be the mobile technology platform of choice for this tiers, and this is reflected both in our product performance as well as our traction with leading smartphones OEMs such as Samsung, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and now Honor. Our latest generation Snapdragon 888 5G mobile platform has now more than 40 device shipped or announced globally and we expect to see more than double this number come to market in the coming months from future product announcements.
Our highly differentiated position in premium and high tiers, our modem-to-antenna leadership and the continued transition of Huawei volume to OEMs using our solutions have positioned us to grow faster in smartphones, while being able to capture the most significant portion of the revenue opportunity. In RF front-end, we continue to see broad and growing adoption of our solutions. 5G leading performance at the component and system level, ease of design and global reach continue to be key differentiators of our modem-to-antenna solutions.
As a reminder, virtually all of our 5G design wins continue to be powered by our RF front-end solutions whether they support 4G, 5G sub-6 or 5G millimeter wave. Beyond smartphones, we’re extending our RF front-end solutions in automotive, PCs, mobile hotspots, fixed wireless access in the broad IoT category. Of note, given our design win pipeline and revenue run rate, we are on track to exceed our Analyst Day RF front-end revenue target of $3.6 billion by fiscal year 2022 with 5G sub-6 and 4G representing the majority of our RF front-end revenues.
Additionally, as 5G millimeter wave technology expands into other geographies, we expect significant expansion of our opportunity due to increased silicon content and value. At Mobile World Congress Shanghai in China and in collaboration with China Unicom, ZTE and the GSMA, we worked with 39 Chinese industry-leading companies to showcase the high performance and rich applications on a live 5G millimeter wave network. This level of collaboration underscores the significant attention to millimeter wave in China and the opportunity ahead beginning in 2022
In automotive, we’re growing across telematics, CV2X, digital cockpit, ADAS and autonomy, and we’re also well positioned for upcoming general computing in Car-to-Cloud platforms. We expect to lead in the segments as cloud connected business models evolve and electrification of the car accelerates. As the digital chassis become one of the most important assets of auto makers, we are becoming a leading technology partner for the automotive industry with capabilities across all this domains. Our automotive design win pipeline is up over $1 billion since the end of fiscal 2020 to approximately $9 billion today.
Along with auto, IoT is becoming a significant growth engine with better than anticipated performance across all categories, namely consumer, networking and industrial. We achieved our second consecutive quarter of over $1 billion in revenue. Trends such as the enterprise transformation of the home, expansion of broadband, the conversions of personal computing with mobile, the intersection of physical and virtual spaces, and the ongoing digital transformation across many verticals are driving growth in one of the largest SAM expansions opportunities for us.
In consumer, as the industry redefines personal computing, we’re confident about our growth in Android, Chrome OS in Windows and Snapdragon where we expect new products with leading NUVIA’s CPUs by the end of the next calendar year. We’re also seeing our early investments in XR platforms reaching scale. And in the growing category of wearables, we believe Snapdragon Sound and Snapdragon Wear will become the leading technology solutions within the Android ecosystem.
In networking, we are a leader in Wi-Fi access points in 5G broadband. We’re benefiting from the global connectivity required for remote work, school and play, and the migration to Wi-Fi 6 and mesh technologies. Our 5G fixed wireless access solutions are seeing broad adoption globally. Going forward, we also have an opportunity to expand into upcoming private 5G networks and public open RAN.
In industrial, we have seen continued adoption of our technologies across the broad industry segments. Key growth areas to name a few, includes smart energy, tracking, metering, industrial handhelds, retail, automation and autonomous drones. As connected IoT edge devices get scale and provide access to the data and contextual information that is fuelling the exponential growth projections of cloud ecosystems, we’re increasingly confident in the long-term growth opportunity for our IoT business.
Turning to our licensing business. Our second quarter results reflect the strength of our unmatched patent portfolio value. We are the global 5G IP leader with more than 130 5G license agreements signed to-date, up from over 120 last quarter with all major handset manufacturers around the globe licensed. We continue to develop and patent new essential innovations for future releases of 5G, which we expect to have a longer lifecycle than prior generations due to its impact on multiple industries. We believe that our model of early research and development, consistent with standard leadership, flexible licensing, and global implementation support will continue to add value to our partners and stockholders for years to come.
Overall, we continue to see unprecedented demand across all of our technologies and businesses as the current environment is accelerating the scale of connectivity and processing at the edge. Despite the industry-wide semiconductor supply shortage, we’re utilizing our scale and working across our entire global supply chain to maximize our ability to capture this opportunity. We expect material improvements by the end of the calendar year due to planned capacity builds and multi-sourcing initiatives.
As one of the leading drivers of advanced semiconductor technology platforms, we’re also excited to see more foundry investment in the United States consistent with the United States government’s strategic priorities. Finally, we’re extremely proud of our collaboration with NASA’s jet propulsion laboratory on Ingenuity, the Mars helicopter powered by Snapdragon. Snapdragon made it to Mars and helped power the first-ever autonomous flight on another planet. This is yet another example of our ingenuity.
I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.
Akash Palkhiwala
Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to report strong second quarter results with non-GAAP revenues of $7.9 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.90, which was $0.15 above the high end of our guidance range. These results reflect year-over-year increases of 52% and 116% in revenue and EPS respectively, driven by strength across QTL and QCT. In QTL, we recorded revenues of $1.6 billion and EBT margins of 74%, both above the high end of our guidance range. The outperformance was primarily driven by stronger handset shipments, especially in China. In addition, our results include a benefit of approximately $80 million from adjustments to prior-quarter royalty estimates.
In QCT, we delivered revenues of $6.3 billion and EBT of $1.6 billion. On a year-over-year basis, revenues were up 53%, while EBT grew 137%, delivering on our commitment to increase operating leverage. We achieved the high end of our guidance range with EBT margins of 25%. This reflects our strong operating performance driven by favorable product mix and gross margins, which more than offset a reduction in the orders within the quarter by a global handset OEM.
RF front-end revenues increased 39% year-over-year to approximately $900 million on the strength of our product portfolio across 4G, 5G sub-6, and 5G millimeter wave. 5G millimeter wave products accounted for less than 20% of our second quarter RF front-end revenues. We expect millimeter wave deployments in other regions such as China to be a tailwind for long-term revenue growth. Automotive revenues of $240 million grew 40%, and IoT revenues of $1.1 billion grew 71% on a year-over-year basis as we continued to see strong momentum for our differentiated product portfolio.
During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of NUVIA for a purchase price of $1.4 billion before working capital and other adjustments. This acquisition provides us with a strong CPU team with industry-leading expertise in high-performance processors and SoCs. Lastly, we returned approximately $2.3 billion to stockholders during the quarter, consisting of $734 million in dividends and $1.5 billion in stock repurchases.
Turning to our global 3G/4G/5G handset forecast for calendar 2021. Based on the strength in the first quarter, we have an upward bias relative to our prior estimate of high single digit year-over-year growth. Our calendar 2021 forecast continues to include an estimate of 450 million to 550 million 5G handsets.
Next, I’ll summarize our guidance for third fiscal quarter. We now expect a stronger outlook in both QTL and QCT relative to our prior expectations, which we shared last quarter due to several positive tailwinds. We are forecasting revenues of $7.1 billion to $7.9 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $1.55 to $1.75 with year-over-year growth of 53% and 92%, respectively, at the midpoints. In QTL, we expect revenues of $1.35 billion to $1.55 billion, up 39% year-over-year at the midpoint, with EBT margins of 68% to 72%. Our revenue guidance midpoint is $100 million higher than our previous estimate, reflecting the positive bias in total handset shipments.
In QCT, we estimate revenues of $5.8 billion to $6.3 billion and EBT margins of 24% to 26%. At the midpoints, this represents year-over-year revenue growth of 59% and EBT dollar growth of 151%. Our stronger forecast for QCT reflects upside in IoT, design traction in handsets and RF front-end, and improved product mix. We are pleased with the success of our diversification strategy as we continue to extend the adoption of smartphone technologies in automotive and IoT.
In the third quarter, we expect IoT revenues to increase to $1.3 billion. We anticipate non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses to grow 3% to 4% sequentially, which includes a full quarter impact of expenses from the NUVIA acquisition and investments to enable additional sourcing for supply. Beyond third quarter, we expect growth to be driven by 5G flagship launches for the holiday season by major OEMs and strong demand across IoT and automotive.
In addition, with the continued transition of Huawei handset volume to other OEMs, we estimate QCT’s annual addressable handset and RF front-end revenue opportunity to increase by up to $10 billion. Given our strong product portfolio, we are positioned to benefit from this opportunity starting in fiscal 2022.
Before I finish my prepared remarks, on behalf of all Qualcomm employees, I want to thank Steve for his contributions over the past 26 years and wish him the best for a well-deserved retirement as CEO. During his successful tenure as CEO, he navigated significant challenges to put the company in a strong financial and strategic position. I look forward to working with Cristiano and the rest of the Qualcomm team to build on his vision and capitalize on the opportunities in front of us.
Thank you. And I’ll now turn the call back to Mauricio.
Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mike Walkley with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed.
Mike Walkley
Great. Thank you. Congratulations on the strong results and, Steve, my best wishes for whatever is next including some hopeful fruitful fishing trips for you. My question for the group is with June seasonally softer quarter for QCT but the guidance quite strong, could you just update us if there is any supply constraints that are still adversely impacting the guidance for the June quarter? And then just a follow-on with the Huawei SAM opportunity you highlighted at the end, Akash, maybe you guys could just touch on your view for the second half of calendar 2021 in terms of potential share gains for you into the Android installed base? Thank you.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes. Hi, Mike. It’s Akash. I’ll take the first one. From a third quarter perspective, we are really seeing a lot of benefits on the QCT side both in terms of kind of improved product mix, which is helping our performance. What we’re seeing there is really since we saw supply constraints and which we continue to see across a broad set of businesses, we were able to take action to optimize our product mix both across tiers and then also when we had reductions in orders by a large OEM – handset OEM, we were able to redirect that capacity to integrated Snapdragon products with strong margin profile. So it’s really a combination of those things. So while we remain in supply constraint, we have been taking actions to manage to optimize the mix within the constraints we have. Your second question was...
Cristiano Amon
Yes, I can take that. This is Cristiano. Look, we’re extremely happy at the opportunity in terms of SAM expansion. If you look at a market such as mobile which is mature, you don’t see that very often an expansion of SAM of about $10 billion. And Qualcomm is very well positioned for that. So as far as second half 2021, we’re very happy with the traction we have in our premium and high tiers across our customer base with new customers as well as Honor, and that’s a great opportunity. It’s going to be one of the largest growth drivers for our mobile business alongside our RF front-end and the ability to have Snapdragon 800 equal premium Android.
Mike Walkley
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Chris Caso with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.
Chris Caso
Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon and, Steve, congratulations and all the best. My first question is related to supply, and you talked about in your prepared remarks supply coming at the end of the year and being able to attack that Huawei replacement market in fiscal 2022. Can you give us some sense of how much incremental supply comes in before then? Or do we have to wait until the December quarter in order to get that volume? And as a follow-on to that, how does that align with your customer product introductions? Again, a lot of product introductions typically happen toward the beginning of the year in the Android space.
Cristiano Amon
Hi, Chris. This is Cristiano. Look, there’s a lot in there. Let me just start with the supply. The overall supply constraint in semiconductors for us is really across all product lines. It’s not unique to one thing or the other. It’s not only smartphone. Frankly, it’s a good position to be in that we actually have more demand than supply across all of our business. And that’s a good sign, gives us confidence about the growth position. We are utilizing our scale and with that we have the ability to be supporting our suppliers’ capacity planning. We can provide stability of demand and in turn get stability of capacity. We are one of the few companies that have the ability to do multi-sourcing at the leading node, and we have done a lot of that with our roadmap. All of that combined, it gives us material improvement in supply by the end of 2021, positioned us very well for 2022, and the full extent I think as Akash outlined the $10 billion SAM expansion on Huawei.
Now, I want to go back to your question about how we think about our customers and customer product introductions. As I said before, we’re very happy with the progress we’re making in premium and high tier. That’s a great opportunity for Qualcomm, and is reflecting in the product mix. As we still have right now even as we show growth, we still have more demand than supply, gives us an opportunity also to have the ability to focus on the products that give us more value to us and to our customers both on the premium side with RF front-end attach and that’s really showing in the numbers with a much-improved product mix.
Akash Palkhiwala
And then, Chris, it’s Akash. Just to add quickly to Cristiano’s comments, as you know, towards the end of the year a lot of the flagship phones get launched both for the holiday season going into Chinese New Year, and so we do feel that with supply constraints opening up a bit, that allows us to take advantage of those launches and really expand into the Huawei SAM.
Chris Caso
That’s great. That’s good color. Thank you. Next question is on QTL, and based on your guidance, it would seem that the revenue that you’re suggesting for the third quarter is back on what you previously expressed as the normalized QTL revenue. Is that what we should expect now going forward that that’s a reflection of the handset market is now normalized and therefore the QTL revenue is normalized against the plan that you’ve talked about in the past?
Akash Palkhiwala
Yeah, that’s definitely a reasonable conclusion. We did see upside – significant upside in the March quarter and which is reflected in our results. But as we go from March to June, what we are forecasting is really a normalized market within the handset market consistent with the historical framework we’ve set up, and that’s a reasonable way to model the business going forward.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you can give us more color on the reduction in orders you talked about from one vendor. How does that play out when you’re in kind of an allocated environment? And then in terms of the supply constraints, maybe if you could just talk about if I’m placing a new order now that’s not in backlog, like how long am I waiting? How tight is the situation? Thank you.
Akash Palkhiwala
Yes, Joe, it’s Akash. Really as you’d expect, given the kind of broad breadth of demand we have across not just mobile but all of our adjacent markets including IoT and auto, we take benefit of any reductions on orders from an OEM to really redirect the supply towards the highest margin product that we have in working with our customers. So that’s really the action we took. It’s obviously a good thing for us to be able to optimize the available supply across our customer base, and that’s what’s reflected as one of the benefits in our June quarter guidance.
Cristiano Amon
Maybe if I can address, Joe, your second question. As far as supply constraints, look, not much more than it’s going to get better at the end of the year. Some of the orders that we still cannot fulfill even though we’re seeing growth and is reflected in the results and the guide, we expect to see towards the end of the year and into 2022 a much more favorable supply environment.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research. Please proceed with your question.
Stacy Rasgon
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask about the – first about the sequential guide across the businesses. You’re guiding QTL down 10%. It looks like chip revenue is guided down about 4%. I know you talked about normalization of the market, but is that just a timing thing given the nature of the constraints in what you’re making? Is it indicative of mix of like the interplay between handset versus non-handset? What can you tell us about the drivers behind the differences of those two segment guidance?
Akash Palkhiwala
Sure. Stacy, it’s Akash. So let me start with QTL. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, the two key drivers for QTL in the March quarter were significantly higher than expected units primarily driven by China for the total handset markets. That was the main driver. And then we also did see a benefit of approximately $80 million due to adjustments to prior quarter royalty estimates that benefited our second quarter performance. So as we go from Q2 to Q3 on the QTL side, we obviously don’t have that royalty estimates adjustment benefit in Q3. And then the second factor is really what we’re assuming is a more normalized handset market going into Q3. We saw some weakness in the December quarter, strength in the March quarter, but when you kind of abstract back from the quarter-to-quarter variances, we think it’s prudent to forecast going forward on a normalized market. So that’s really what’s driving QTL.
From a QCT perspective, you’re right, we’re assuming a 4% quarter-over-quarter decline. If you – as you’d recall, our new premium tier product launches in the March quarter, so when we go typically from March to June, there’s a little bit of seasonality. Part of that is offset by really the supply framework, and so that kind of calibrates a little bit on what happens between the quarters anyways. So that’s really kind of the key drivers there. The one thing, I’ll highlight is and I mentioned this in my prepared remarks, for IoT, we have very strong demand going into the June quarter. We have a forecast of $1.3 billion increasing from $1.1 billion in March. So very happy to see the diversification across the businesses.
Stacy Rasgon
That’s helpful. Thank you. If I could ask a brief follow-up, I mean you called out Honor specifically several times as both a customer and a potential growth driver. Can you talk a little bit more about them? Do you have any thoughts on where – I guess your share is low today, but any thoughts on where that can go, what your average ASP or tier that you’re attacking with Honor is going to be, and does the Huawei license that you signed last year, does that license directly transfer over to Honor, or did you have to sign a new license with them, and if that’s the case, have you signed one with them?
Alex Rogers
Stacy, this is Alex. Let me just answer that question really quickly. We have separate agreements now with 