Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (OTC:SSNLF) Q3 2020 Earnings Conference Call October 28, 2020  9:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ben Suh - SVP, IR
Han JinMan - SVP, Semiconductor Business, Memory
DongHo Shin - SVP, Semiconductor Business, System LSI
Seung Hoon Han - SVP at Samsung Foundry
KwonYoung Choi - VP, Samsung Display
Lee JongMin - VP, Mobile Communications Business
Kim WonHee - VP, Visual Display Business
Conference Call Participants
Peter Lee - Citigroup
Nicolas Gaudois - UBS Investment Bank
Dongwon Kim - KB Securities
Claire Kim - Hana Financial Investment
Jong Woo Yoo - Korea Investment & Securities
S. K. Kim - Daiwa Securities
Operator
Good morning, and good evening. First of all, thank you all for joining this conference call. And now we will begin the conference for the fiscal year 2020 third quarter earnings results by Samsung Electronics. [Operator Instructions]
Now we shall commence the presentation on the fiscal year 2020 third quarter earnings results by Samsung Electronics.
Ben Suh
Good morning. This is Ben Suh from Investor Relations. Thank you for joining our earnings call for the third quarter of 2020. With me representing each of the business units are: Mr. Han JinMan, Senior Vice President of the Memory Marketing team; Mr. DongHo Shin, Senior Vice President of the System LSI marketing team; Mr. Han Seung Hoon, Senior Vice President of the Foundry Marketing team; Mr. KwonYoung Choi, Vice President of Samsung Display; Mr. Lee JongMin, Vice President of the IT and Mobile business; and Mr. Kim WonHee, Vice President of the Visual Display business. In addition, Mr. Kang TaeGyu from Investor Relations is present on this call as well.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements we will be making today are forward looking based on the environment as we currently see it, and all such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed in today's discussion.
Before we begin, and with great sadness, I would like to take a moment to reflect on our Chairman, Kun-Hee Lee, who passed away on October 25th, with his family at his side. Chairman Lee was a true visionary who drove the historic transformation of Samsung from a relatively small electronics company into the global IT leader that we are today. In particular, his new management initiatives in 1993 was the driving force behind his vision of delivering the best technology to help advance global society. All of us at Samsung will cherish his memory and everlasting legacy.
With that, I would like to discuss the results for the third quarter. Today is our third earnings call after the COVID-19 pandemic started, and unfortunately, its effects are still being felt heavily around the globe. As we continue to keep our employees' health at our top priority, the company's management and employees are also focused on overcoming challenges to ensure that we meet our customers' needs, even under difficult to predict market conditions. This readiness has helped us achieve our highest ever quarterly revenue and our performance to exceed market expectations.
Total revenue in the quarter was KRW67 trillion, a 26.4% quarter-on-quarter increase. Demand for consumer products was much stronger than expected, and timely responses utilizing our global supply chain management capabilities, with a key factor for the significant increase in sales. A recovery and component demand in the mobile segment also contributed to the gain.
On a year-on-year basis, total revenue grew 8% on the back of sales performances of multiple key products. Gross profit increased KRW5.9 trillion sequentially to KRW27 trillion, led by the mobile business and fee division and gross margin grew slightly to 40.3%. Both gross profit and gross margin also improved substantially year-on-year.

SG&A expenses increased as a significant rise in sales resulted in higher marketing and other expenses. As a percentage of sales however, they declined 2.5 percentage points to 21.9% due to efficient cost execution.
Operating profit totaled KRW12.4 trillion, up KRW4.2 trillion quarter-on-quarter, due to the dramatic revenue increase as well as thorough cost management efforts. Operating margin improved considerably to 18.4%. On a year-on-year basis, both operating profit and operating margin increased sharply, backed by an improved environment for the memory business and strong sales of consumer products.
I will now briefly review the results for each business unit. The memory business performed well, despite a decline in ASP with shipments exceeding prior guidance, thanks to solid mobile and PC demand and a continuation of cost improvements. System semiconductor earnings grew as demand improved for major mobile components for System LSI. And orders increased from foundry customers through HPC and other products.
In display, earnings improved sequentially with growing sales of mobile panels for customers newly launched products, and an improved supply and demand environment for large panels. On a year-on-year basis, however, profits declined due to a later than usual launch of new smartphone models by a major customer.
In the mobile business, earnings grew considerably quarter-on-quarter at a nearly 50% increase in smartphone sales, which included flagship models resulted in a significant economy of scale advantage on top of profitability gains from efficient cost management. The CE division also improved its earnings markedly both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year, as sales of premium TVs and digital appliances increased sharply. We were able to respond effectively to this surge in demand using our leading, global supply chain management capabilities.
Regarding currency affects, a weak U.S. dollar and strong euro against the Korean won was positive for the IM and CE divisions, but negative for the component business resulting in a net neutral position.
Next, I would like to share our business outlook. In the fourth quarter, we expect overall profitability to decline due to intensifying competition in the mobile business and CE division, alongside a continuation of soft demand from server customers. For memory, despite an increase in node process migration and solid demand for mobile and notebook PCs, we expect profitability to decline due to weak pricing in the server segment, as customers continue to adjust inventory. And there will also be initial cost increases associated with the ramp up of our new lines.
In system semiconductor, System LSI will start mass shipment of 5-nanometer 5G
SoCs, while for foundry, HPC and mobile SoC customer orders are expected to increase.
For display, mobile panel earnings should improve as we expect to see a significant quarter-on-quarter increase in sales. The large panel business will continue QD display preparations as planned, as it also fully addresses LCD demand. We expect mobile profitability to decline due to a decrease in smartphone sales, coupled with an increase in marketing costs in the upcoming seasonally competitive quarter.
In CE, we anticipate seeing solid demand backed by strong year-end seasonality. However, profitability is likely to decrease due to increased competition and costs.
Now let's move on to our outlook for 2021, global demand is forecast to increase year-on-year, but uncertainties are unlikely to ease given the possibility of additional waves of the pandemic. The component business will focus on strengthening market leadership through next generation node processes in timely investments. We believe there may be some risks regarding mobile inventory adjustment as a result of overlapping component demand for multiple customers that started at the end of the third quarter. We will continue to monitor this carefully.

For the memory business, we will enhance market leadership by expanding node migrations and by flexibly adjusting our product mix. For investments, we will continue to adhere to our strategy to be ready to meet mid to long-term demand, while maintaining flexibility regarding near-term demand.
System LSI will actively address the growing demand for 5G SoCs and high-resolution sensors, by offering differentiated products. And Foundry will accelerate growth by expanding into new applications within HPC and other areas, as well as by attracting additional large customers.
For display, the mobile panel business will work to improve earnings by leveraging our differentiated technologies and cost competitiveness. The large panel business will focus on successfully launching QD display.
For the mobile and CE products, we will strive to improve profitability by further strengthening premium line-ups and operational efficiency. On top of the above, the mobile business will expand its foldable and 5G smartphone offerings in an effort to increase sales and enhance profitability.
The network business will strengthen its global business foundation by continuing to expand 5G commercialization and explore new business opportunities. CE, will strive to sustain growth by expanding its premium line-up and strengthening its online and B2B businesses.
Now I will address capital expenditures. Third quarter CapEx was KRW8.4 trillion with KRW6.6 trillion allocated to semiconductor and KRW1.5 trillion to display. The cumulative total for this year as of the end of the third quarter is KRW25.5 trillion, with KRW21.3 trillion allocated to semiconductor and KRW3.1 trillion to display. We expect full year CapEx to reach approximately KRW35.2 trillion with KRW28.9 trillion allocated to semiconductor and KRW4.3 trillion to display.
As a reminder, the full year numbers are projections, and the actual figures may differ depending on factors such as market conditions and the timing of equipment deliveries.
For the memory business, CapEx should exceed last year's total with investments in node migrations and capacity expansions to expand and address future demand. Foundry CapEx will increase year-on-year as we expand capacity, including for 5-nanometer EUV. Display investments will also increase mainly for QD display capacity, a new technological processes for mobile panels.
Next, I would like to address the third quarter dividend. The Board of Directors today approved a quarterly dividend of KRW354 for both common and preferred stock. The total pay-out is the same as it was in the first and second quarters, which is KRW2.4 trillion or one-fourth of the planned annual total of KRW9.6 trillion.
In closing, let me share some updates in our sustainability management. Samsung Electronics believe water management is the first step in environmental protection at our sites, and is an integral part of manufacturers' management in activities. For more than 10 years we have committed to water management by focusing on the three R's, reduce, reuse, and recycle, and by including water reduction as a performance indicator.
On September 22nd, Samsung Electronics was recognized for such endeavors, achieving another first in the semiconductor industry. Our Hwaseong campus earned a water footprint certification from Carbon Trust, a UK-based entity that recognizes eco-friendly organizations or products. The certification is given to an organization based on a comprehensive evaluation of water use and management over a three-year period.
Next, I will address our activities over the past year regarding cobalt for development, an initiative to improve the living and working environment for communities involved with the artisanal cobalt mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Cobalt is a key component in the production of batteries for electronic devices and electric vehicles. And we are working to minimize the negative impacts that artisanal mining in Congo has on society and the environment, including human rights violations and environmental issues.

After launching in September 2019, as a joint project between Samsung Electronics, the German Society for International Cooperation, Samsung SDI, BMW and BASF, cobalt for development has reached out to and helped more than 1,800 people in the communities by providing new learning facilities and a wide range of educational programs. We will continue to support the initiative to improve access to education and human rights, the environment and safety for the miners.
On a separate note, Interbrand announced their best global brand list on October 20th, and our estimated brand value reached a new high of $62.3 billion. We are in the top five for the first time after having ascended to the sixth spot in 2017. Interbrand cited our rapid response to COVID-19, as well as our sustainability management activities is some of the factors that played a critical role in the growth of the Samsung brand. We will continue our efforts in sustainability management, and we'll be sure to keep you updated.
I will now turn the conference call over to the gentleman from each business unit, to present third quarter performances and outlooks for the corresponding business segments. Thank you.
Han JinMan
Good morning. This is Han JinMan from the Memory Marketing team. In the third quarter, server demand weakened somewhat relative to the strength it showed in the first-half. But overall demand was higher than expected, as mobile demand started to recover, mainly in the low to mid-price segments.
For DRAM, demand for mobile increased, a strong seasonality and improved consumer confidence help drive an increase in sales. They're centered on low to mid-price smartphones. While effects of 5G expansion in Huawei's origin orders also contributed to the rise. For server demand was weak mainly from OEMs, while major customers utilized their inventories.
The overall demand was relatively solid, backed by Huawei's inventory buildup. For PC, along with strong demand for laptops such as Chromebooks demand increased, led by set deals ahead of seasonal events like Black Friday. Graphic demand increased, as on top of strong seasonal effects, demand from gaming expanded due to increased game access related to the stay-at-home trend, and accelerated production of new game consoles.
We expanded sales through mobile applications by preemptively converting our product mix. And we actively responded to PC demand mainly for laptops, linked with an ongoing expansion of the number of people working from home and learning online. As a result, we exceeded our previous peak growth guidance.
Next, I will talk about demand. For mobile as was the case with DRAM, demand was strong, bolstered by launches of new models by major manufacturers. The recovery of consumer confidence in Huawei's original orders. For server, demand declined due to inventory adjustment at major customers related to the increase purchasing in the first-half. For client SSD, demand was strong for low to mid-price laptops, as more people work and study from home, while demand for SSDs for new game consoles also increased significantly.
Our bit growth exceeded that of the market due to increased shipments for overall applications. Thanks to our active responses to strong mobile demand, which includes demand from the inventory buildup at Huawei and that related to expanded sales of SSDs for new game consoles.
Next, let's talk about the outlook for the fourth quarter. For DRAM, mobile build demand is likely to see another quarter of growth, mainly led by Chinese manufacturers, due to the release of new smartphones and the recovery of domestic demand in China. While for server, we expect demand to remain weak as customers continue to adjust inventory.
For PC, we expect to see solid demand for low to mid-price laptops such as Chromebooks, but desktop demand will probably stay soft due to conservative IT investment from enterprises. For graphic, we expect demand for graphics cards to appear with the release of new higher performance GPUs, while demand for new game console should stay solid.

In the face of continued uncertainties, we'll accurately address rising demand from major mobile customers, while optimizing our product mix. And we will continue to strengthen our cost competitiveness through a stable production ramp up and timely sales of 1z nanometer DRAM.
For NAND, in the fourth quarter along with signals of an economic recovery, such as improving economic indicators, we expect demand for mobile to increase mainly led by Chinese mobile manufacturers. For server SSD, we expect demand to remain soft due to ongoing inventory adjustment in customers and effects of conservative CapEx in major customers, caused by prolonged COVID-19, which should result in a slight decline in prices.
For client SSD, we believe demand will be robust, led by continuing demand for low to mid-price laptops, while content per box should increase. We will actively respond to increasing demand in the client SSD and mobile markets, and continue to expand the sixth generation V-NAND conversion to enhance technology leadership and cost competitiveness.
Now let's move to the outlook for 2021. First of all, I would like to ask you to understand that it is difficult to provide a detailed forecast given the current number of uncertainties, which include possibilities of prolonged pandemic as well as numerous geopolitical issues. However, I can provide our general outlook.
For mobile build demand, which has increased thus far in this fourth quarter is likely to stay solid throughout the first-half of next year, as more low-end mid-range smartphones adopt 5G technology.
On the other hand, for server, we believe demand which has been weighed on by inventory adjustments at customers in the second-half, is highly likely to turn around in the first-half of next year, influenced by impacts of a newly released CPU and the recovery of previously shrinking investment on top of healthy inventory levels.
In this volatile market for overall applications, we believe that it is very important to quickly detect changes and respond accordingly. Therefore, while concentrating on flexibility in our product mix to increase responsiveness to changes in demand, we will keep adding to competitiveness by accelerating conversion to 1z nanometer DRAM and sixth generation of V-NAND.
In addition, we will continue to develop next generation products such as EUV based 1a nano DRAM, and seventh generation of V-NAND to strengthen competitiveness for a post-pandemic era in newly growing markets, such as AI and edge computing. Thank you.
DongHo Shin
Good morning. This is DongHo Shin from the System LSI business. In the third quarter, our earnings improved due to a recovery in demand for mobile components, such as images sensors and SoCs. Following increased production by global manufacturers and improved smartphone consumption sentiment, which had both been suppressed by effects of COVID-19.
In particular, the performance of our display driver ICs improved significantly, as the demand for tablet and laptops increased due to growing monumental contemporary environments, such as telecommuting and remote education.
In the image sensors, we strengthened the leadership in ultra-small and high-resolution pixels, by establishing our line of various products based on 0.27-micrometer pixels. In the fourth quarter, we expect the demand for SoCs and other mobile related components to increase as major smartphone manufacturers attempt to expand market share and add a new 5G smartphone to their line-ups. We will under these conditions focus on expanding the mobile SoC business by starting the supply of 5G and integrated SoCs built on advanced 5-nanometer EUV processes.
In 2021, although external uncertainties such as the duration of COVID-19 outbreak will remain factors, we expect the market to recover due to increased demand following responsible [ph] expansion strategies of major smartphone manufacturers. We will expand [indiscernible] our 5G integrated SoCs high resolution image sensors and display products only to solid demand.

In addition, we will increase our market share by diversifying applications for security products and by existing technology, such as high frame rate on mobile TDIs. By doing so, we plan to achieve double digit sales growth next year. Thank you.
Seung Hoon Han
Good morning. This is Shawn Hahn from the Foundry business. In the third quarter, we achieved the new high for quarterly sales on back of improved consumer sentiment, recovery of demand from mobile when the assumption of production at manufacturers and an increased demand for HPC chips from major customers.
In addition, we have certified a foot forward for growth by providing the competitiveness of our advanced process technology, with the start off shipments of 5-nano mobile products and mass production of 2.5D packages.
In the fourth quarter, we aim to set an even higher level for quarterly sales by expanding shipments of mobile SoCs and HPC chips to major customers, and we will continue our efforts to widen our leap in advanced processes by completing the design of second generation of 5-nano products and the first generation of mobile use 4-nano products.
Moreover, we will continue to strengthen the 5-foundry ecosystem both at home and abroad to optimize the results of our cooperation with our partners, utilizing events, such as yesterday, SAFE Forum, we call it Safe Forum 2020.
In 2021, we will continue to diversify applications not only in mobile, but also in HPC consumer products and network, and we will try to add more stability to our business structure by attracting additional large customers.
In addition, we expect demand to stay strong for our entire process portfolio, and we will do our best to ensure a stable supply of our products by expanding capacity and improving efficiency. Through this, we expect our growth rate to significantly exceed that of the market. Thank you.
KwonYoung Choi
Good morning. This is KwonYoung Choi from Planning team of Samsung Display. In the third quarter, despite effects of the pandemic earnings in the display business improved, driven by increased sales for smartphones, TVs and monitors.
To be most specific, the mobile display business recorded earnings growth by increasing utilization and expanding sales of OLED dependence to respond to do products release at major customers and meet a gradual pickup of previously stagnant smartphone demand.
In the large display business, losses narrowed quarter-on-quarter supported by risk demand and an increase in ASP under strong seasonality, led by sales of ultra-large TVs and high-performance monitor panels, as people spend more time at home.
Next, let me share the outlook of the fourth quarter. For mobile display, we expect full fledge sales of our main customers new products to keep demand at a solid level. In response, we'll improve our sales and profitability by fully meeting our customer demand and by enhancing our product mix. The large display business will continue to service customer demand, and at the same time accelerate the tradition of business structure based on new technologies.
Finally, I will share our outlook for the display market and our core strategies for 2021. For the mobile display business, we expect uncertainties regarding a demand recovery to linger given the chances of additional waves of COVID-19 and risks associated with the U.S.-China trade dispute.
However, we expect to see a gradual recovery of smartphone market driven by the expansion of 5G networks. We'll ensure our OLED panels emerge as a mainstream display in the mobile product market, by expanding our differentiated design and new technologies, which offer lower power consumption, high refresh rates alongside our efforts to reinforce cost competitiveness.
Moreover, we'll strengthen our market presence by spurring innovation in home factor with technology, such as foldable, slideable and rollover displays, and by adding new application areas such as notebooks and tablets. For the large display business, we'll develop our differentiated QD display technology according to schedule, and establish a strong foundation for QD display in the premium segment. Thank you.

Lee JongMin
Good morning. I'm Lee JongMin from the Mobile Communications Business. I will now share our third quarter results and outlook for the IM division. In the third quarter, the market showed a gradual recovery led by positive, such as economic stimulus packages, with demand rising quarter-on-quarter from levels caused by lockdowns in major regions.
For the mobile business, our smartphone sales increased sharply quarter-on-quarter. Thanks to launch of our flattish models, the Galaxy Note 20 and Z Fold2, and a demand recovery for mass market models in many regions, including India.
Alongside the increase in sales, profitability improved dramatically quarter-on-quarter, as a result of an improvement to our cost structure, including component standardization and efficient execution of marketing expense.
In addition, rising sales of tablets and wearables also contributed to profit growth in the third quarter. We launched new Galaxy devices such as Premium TabS7, Watch3, and Buds Live along with Note 20 in August. In September, we unveiled the Z Fold2 featuring refined hardware technology and user experiences as well as S20 FE, which is packed with the features tailor made for our fans. We will continue to expand our Galaxy eco-system based on competitive products that fully reflects the needs of our customers.
For the network business, domestic and overseas project was delayed due to COVID-19 impact. However, we strengthened our foundation for growth in the 5G business by signing a largest contract with Verizon to supply of network equipment.
Now, let me move on to the outlook for the fourth quarter. We expect market demand to increase a quarter-on-quarter amid strong year-end seasonality, as the market continues to recover. All the mobile business, it seems inevitable that smartphone sales will decline and our product mix will somewhat weaken compared to the previous quarter, given seasonal factors such as subsiding new model effects of our flagships.
Furthermore, we expect our profit to decrease due to an increase in the marketing costs as we face intensifying market competition and year-end peak seasonality. For the network business, we will continue to expand the 5G coverage in Korea, and also push for expansion in global 5G markets, including North America and Japan.
Last, let me share our outlook for next year. Mobile market demand is expected to increase amid gradual economic recoveries and full-scale migration towards 5G. However, it will take some time to recover to pre-COVID levels and uncertainties related to COVID-19 will remain.
For the mobile business, we will expand the smartphone sales by strengthening our 5G line-up for the mass market. We will further differentiate our flagship line-up by reinforcing the competitiveness of our foldable phones to have popularized them in the market. At the same time, we will continue our efforts to bolster profitability by enhancing both our product mix and operational efficiency.
For the network business, we will actively attract new orders for our global 5G business and continue our timely response to 5G commercialization, in both the domestic and overseas markets. Thank you.
Kim WonHee
Good morning everyone. I'm Kim WonHee from Sales and Marketing Visual Display Division. First, I'd like to review the market conditions and our performance in Q3 of 2020. The TV market in Q3 grew both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter with a significant release a pent-up demand for advanced markets. The TV replacement demand was boosted as consumers spend more time at home.
We responded promptly to the growth in demand with our global SM capabilities, and captured the pent-up demand by strengthening cooperation with major channel partners and by preemptively preparing promotions.

In response to new non-contact era, we continue to foster online sales and enhance digital marketing. We proactively targeted consumers' needs for great picture quality in home cinemas, and the rising popularity of smart TVs with increased use of at home services, such as OTT.
As a result, we expand the sale of new models and premium products such as QLED and super large screen TVs. With growing consumer needs and desires to customize the home environment and interior, we also increased sales of our lifestyle TVs which are designed to fit various styles and consumer tastes. These efforts led to our strong performance in Q3, and will recover sales decline in the first-half of the year.
For digital appliances, the market demand in advanced markets recovered after a temporary drop, helped in part by expansionary policies of governments. Revenue in Q3 grew considerably as we preemptively address pent up demand, resulting in increased sales of our premium products, including bespoke refrigerators and Grande AI washer and dryer. Rising sales of dryers and hairdressers also contributed to the strong results amid growing awareness of how home appliances can lead to better hygiene.
Now, let us look at our outlook for Q4 and 2021. The TV market in Q4 is projected to grow year-on-year in the traditional peak season. However, the risks of COVID-19 and corresponding social and economic changes may continue to increase uncertainty. We believe Q4 will be very different from before, as social distancing policies are likely to affect offline consumption, and peak sales season events will be spread over a longer period of time than before.
Amid all these changes we expect to see much fiercer competition. Also, entering year-end peak sales season after the flood of pent up demand, the industry may face many challenges, including the risk of rising costs. Under these circumstances, we will work closely with our channel partners to overcome these challenges and secure profitability.
We will continue to improve our online sales infrastructure to prepar