Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (OTC:SSNLF) Q1 2020 Earnings Conference Call April 28, 2020  9:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ben Suh - SVP, IR
Han JinMan - SVP, Semiconductor Business (Memory)
DongHo Shin - SVP, Semiconductor Business (System LSI)
Shawn Han - SVP, Samsung Foundry
KwonYoung Choi - VP, Samsung Display
JongMin Lee - VP, Mobile Communications Business
Kim Louis - VP, Visual Display Business
Conference Call Participants
Nicolas Gaudois - UBS Investment Bank
Claire Kim - Hana Financial Investment
SK Kim - Daiwa Securities
Dongwon Kim - KB Securities
Peter Lee - Citigroup 
J.J. Park - JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Jong Woo Yoo - Korea Investment & Securities
Hyunwoo Doh - NH Investment & Securities
Operator
Good morning, and good evening. First of all, thank you all for joining this conference call. And now we will begin the conference of the fiscal year 2020 first quarter earnings result by Samsung Electronics. This conference will start with a presentation followed by a divisional Q&A session [Operator Instructions]. Now we shall commence the presentation on the fiscal year 2019 first quarter earnings results by Samsung Electronics.
Ben Suh
Good morning. This is Ben Suh from Investor Relations. Thank you for joining our earnings call for the quarter of 2020. With me representing each of the business units are: Mr. Han JinMan, Senior Vice President of the Memory Marketing team; Mr. Shin DongHo, Senior Vice President of the System LSI Marketing team; Mr. Han Seung Hoon, Senior Vice President of the Foundry Marketing team; Mr. Choi KwonYoung, Vice President of Samsung Display; Mr. Lee JongMin, Vice President of IT and Mobile business; and Mr. Kim WonHee, Vice President of the Visual Display business. In addition, Mr. Kang TaeGyu from Investor Relations is present on this call as well.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements we will be making today are forward looking based on the environment as we currently see it, and all such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed in today's discussion.
Before we start our normal review of quarterly results, I would like to address a topic on everybody's mind, the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 has created unprecedented challenges for the global community. At this point, it is impossible to determine how big of an impact it will have or how long it will affect our society and economy, leading to a period of extremely heightened uncertainty. For our part, Samsung Electronics is doing everything we can to carry out our vital roles, taking care of our employees, supporting our customers and helping affected communities at home and abroad.
First and foremost, the health and safety of our employees and their families is our top priority. We launched regional response teams around the globe to provide our employees with timely and up-to-date information and resources based on the latest guidelines from local health authorities. We have restricted business travel, have strongly advised global employees to work from home where possible and have closed some of our facilities to support social distancing efforts where necessary. In our operating facilities, we have implemented additional safeguards by mandating health screenings and temperature checks to enter offices or facilities, which are disinfected on a frequent and regular basis. Also, we are providing masks to our employees at such facilities.
Next, we are closely collaborating and sharing information with our key partners to jointly address problems this crisis may bring. And we are doing our utmost to ensure that our customers have reliable access to our products and services by flexibly managing operations across our global production and supply networks.

For the global community, we are actively supporting governments and communities around the world in their relief efforts through financial contributions and donations of medical supplies and electronic devices, including products to help facilitate online education. In Korea, we provided a facility for use as a treatment center and offer the expertise of our engineers to improve the efficiency at mask manufacturing operations. Also, all employees at Samsung Electronics via a company-wide initiative are exploring ideas on how we can use our technologies and capabilities to further support those affected by COVID-19.
In terms of financial performance, we delivered solid results in the first quarter despite this difficult environment. However, a surge in the number of cases of COVID-19 across the globe in March led to disruptions or shutdowns of our distribution and supply networks, off-line stores and manufacturing facilities, hurting production and sales amid lower demand. As a result, certain areas of the company, mainly our SET businesses, will be under stress in the second quarter, and we expect uncertainties to continue into the second half of the year. We will keep monitoring the situation and based on our technology leadership and product competitiveness, respond quickly and flexibly to new developments to minimize impacts on our business and customers. In spite of the current challenges, we will continue to enhance the competitiveness of our core businesses and invest strategically in R&D in order to emerge from the pandemic well positioned for future growth.
Finally, we would like to express gratitude and pay respect to everyone working to combat this crisis. From all of us at Samsung, we wish good health to you and all those close to you.
Now let's move on to our first quarter results. Total revenue in the first quarter was KRW55.3 trillion, a decrease of 7.6% from the previous quarter mainly due to weak seasonality for our Display business and CE division and partially due to the effects of COVID-19. Year-on-year, revenue increased by 5.6% due to higher demand from memory and other components related to mobile.
Gross profit fell KRW0.8 trillion quarter-on-quarter to KRW20.5 trillion, while gross margin was slightly higher at 37.1%. SG&A expenses decreased by KRW0.1 trillion quarter-on-quarter led by a reduction in marketing costs. However, they increased as a percentage of sales. Operating profit was lower by KRW0.7 trillion quarter-on-quarter to KRW6.4 trillion, affected by the same factors that weighed on revenue with a corresponding decrease in operating margin even though memory earnings were higher. Year-on-year, operating profit increased by KRW0.2 trillion, with an improved product mix in the mobile business and additional diversification of our customer base in mobile OLED. Foreign exchange movements had little effect on our overall operating profit in the quarter as positives from a strong U.S. dollar and euro against the won felt mainly in the Component business were offset by weakness in currencies in major emerging markets.
I will now briefly review the performance of each business unit. In the Memory business, profits improved sequentially amid solid demand primarily from server and PC as well as steady demand from mobile. For system semiconductors, earnings rose due to an increased supply of mobile components to our major customers while profits for foundry declined slightly due to lower high-performance computing demand from China.
In the Display business, mobile panel earnings decreased quarter-on-quarter amid weak seasonality and a reduction in sales in China due to COVID-19-related shutdowns. The large panel business recorded a narrower loss as smaller declines in the market price were more than offset by other factors.

Mobile earnings grew quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year despite COVID-19-related weakening sales toward the end of the quarter due to an improved product mix with the launch of S20 flagship devices and efficient execution of marketing costs.
The CE division recorded weaker results sequentially due to seasonality as well as early effects of COVID-19. Earnings in the TV business dipped year-on-year amid aggressive price competition but the home appliance business improved its performance backed by strong sales of new premium products. Harman's results were affected by significant one-off costs related to the relocation of a European manufacturing plant.
Next, I would like to share our business outlook. In the second quarter of 2020, while we expect memory earnings to remain solid, our overall earnings are likely to fall quarter-on-quarter due to a sharp increase in the impact of COVID-19 that will affect demand for several of our core products.
For the component business, memory demand is forecast to remain solid for server and PC as more people work from home but possibly slip for mobile. OLED earnings are likely to be weaker due to a stagnant smartphone market.
In the SET business, many of our key products are expected to see a significant drop in sales and profits due to shrinking demand related to COVID-19 and also store and plant closures around the globe. To address this, we will leverage our global production flexibility and supply networks while also strengthening our online sales capabilities. Harman earnings will remain soft due to temporary shutdowns of automotive plants globally, which are also due to COVID-19.
In the second half, uncertainty levels are expected to remain high given the unknown duration of the pandemic and its effects. Considering this, we will flexibly respond to changes in demand and focus on optimizing resource allocation in the short term while continuing to strengthen semiconductor technology leadership and develop innovative SET products for accelerated growth post-COVID-19.
For the component business, in memory, we will add to our technology leadership and cost competitiveness via node process migration while staying agile to changes in the market with flexible investments and product mix adjustments. In OLED, we will actively address demand for new product releases and also expand our presence in new application areas such as foldables and IT devices.
For the SET business, we will continue to develop leading products that will take consumer experiences to the next level. Mobile will strengthen its lineup by introducing new premium models and expanding offerings of 5G models for the mass market. Network will focus on developing technologies and enhancing global competencies to reinforce the 5G business. CE will efficiently execute marketing and promotional programs tailored to conditions in each country, and we'll work to expand sales of innovative products like MicroLED and 8K TVs along with our new lifestyle offerings in the second half.
Now I will address capital expenditures. CapEx in the first quarter was approximately KRW7.3 trillion with KRW6 trillion allocated to semiconductor and KRW0.8 trillion to display. For memory, we are continuing expansion in our production sites and investment in node migrations as planned. In foundry, investments are focused on expanding capacity of advanced EUV process nodes. 
Finally, I would like to address the first quarter dividend. Today, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of KRW354 for both common and preferred stock. Even though we expect to face challenging business environment in the second quarter, mainly in the SET businesses, as more effects of the COVID-19 pandemic take hold, first quarter dividends will continue to be based on our current dividend schedule.

I will now turn the conference call over to the gentlemen from each business unit to present first quarter performances and outlooks for their corresponding business segments. Thank you.
Han JinMan
Good morning. This is Han JinMan from the Memory Marketing team. In the first quarter, despite weak seasonality and effects of the spread of COVID-19, purchasing demand for overall applications remained solid backed by demand from cloud applications resulting from an increase in remote working and online education and continued investment in 5G infrastructure.
For DRAM, demand was solid from data centers, centering on cloud services as a stay-at-home economy has expanded usage of online shopping and streaming services among others. For mobile, even though SET demand decreased due to effects of COVID-19 and seasonality, related negatives were offset by rising demand from the ongoing trend toward high density in new products and major customers and growing concerns over supply stability in the second half. For PC, the closure of some manufacturing sites had an impact on set builds, but overall demand remained steady thanks to growing reliance on virtual meetings related to social distancing policies and also because of the management concerns over the stability of supply in the second half.
In the quarter, we used our product mix flexibility to actively address upside demand from major customers such as PC and server, enabling us to exceed our previous bit growth guidance. We have also increased our product competitiveness by expanding the sales portion of high-density server products based on 16-gigabit and accelerating process migration for 1y-nano products.
Next, I'll talk about the NAND market. For mobile, even though macro uncertainties weighed on demand, especially from set makers in China, demand for mobile memory overall was relatively solid due to wider adoption of high-density storage with more than 128 gigabyte in major customers' products.
For SSDs, demand for server SSD chip's growing mainly for data center alongside rising demand for high-volume content. For client SSD, although set production at the beginning of the quarter was partially affected by a drop in utilization at ODMs due to COVID-19, utilization recovered at the end of the quarter and propped up purchasing demand to an extent. We actively address demand for high value-added server SSD focusing on data centers. We also improved our profits by enhancing cost competitiveness via increased migration to fifth-generation V-NAND.
Next, I'd like to talk about the second quarter outlook. For DRAM, we expect demand to remain firm across all applications despite a likely continuation of weakened consumer confidence related to the worldwide pandemic. Specifically, the rapid rise in the number of people working from home relying on online education and using streaming services is likely to create robust growth in demand from server while that for PC is expected to remain steady. For mobile, however, we expect set demand to stay highly uncertain amid soft consumer confidence and considering characteristics of the mobile market, which include a high off-line portion of sales. We will flexibly manage our product mix to align with changes in demand with a particular focus on growing demand from server. Also, we will strengthen our cost competitiveness by expanding technology migration.
In the NAND market, as is the case for DRAM, there will be impacts from a decrease in smartphone set demand. These effects, however, will be offset by growing demand for SSD, so we expect the overall NAND demand to continue to grow. We have color. Demand for video content has accelerated due to social distancing policies, and demand for server SSD is expected to keep rising as data centers work to support various high-definition content more reliably. We will focus on expanding demand for high-density, high value-added server SSD above 2 terabyte while continuing to extend migration to fifth generation V-NAND to secure cost competitiveness.

Next, I will talk about the prospects for the second half. In the memory industry, mobile demand has been most affected by COVID-19, and any recovery will depend on factors such as the containment of the pandemic as well as the rate consumers in major countries regain confidence. Given the high uncertainties related to the virus and other macro factors, it is difficult to provide annual guidance at this time. However, even as such uncertainties persist, overall conditions in the memory industry are likely to be favorable due to server and PC demand related to supplying a fast and more reliable cloud service experience. If COVID-19 persists in the longer term, there are risks that demand may further decline for overall applications, including server. However, in this case -- even in this case, chances of sudden market fluctuations are likely limited by possible impact on supply as due to factors such as delays in equipment procurement.
Despite these unexpected challenges, the recent digital transformation trend is likely to accelerate further in the mid- to long term as a new lifestyle based on online services quickens its spread through our people's daily lives. As a result, demand for high-end, high-performance memory will continue to grow.
We will maintain a flexible product mix and investment approach based on market changes while focusing on increasing sales of differentiated products such as mobile LPDDR5, GDDR6 and high-density server SSD, along with accelerating the conversion to cutting-edge products such as 1z nano DRAM and sixth generation V-NAND. Additionally, the recent 2 to 3 years have highlighted that rapid price fluctuation in the short term can result in significant negative effects on the stability of growth not only for memory suppliers but also for the IT industry as a whole.
As we're preparing for numerous scenarios, including ones where the COVID-19 crisis is prolonged or if it ends early and are actively utilizing previous market sensing data and our SCM strength to ensure we can satisfy customer demand, which can change rapidly in an uncertain environment. Moreover, as we announced in March, we are actively expanding our use of EUV and preparing for -- to adopt the process in earnest 1a nano DRAM in the low 14-nano range as planned. We believe the adoption of EUV is not just another means to reduce size but rather a critical transition to break through technological barriers.
Despite these unprecedented uncertainties in the market, we, as a leading company, will do our best to contribute to stable growth for our customers and the IT industry as a whole by continuous development and innovation of new technology alongside timely and sustainable investment with a view to the mid- to long term. Thank you.
DongHo Shin
Good morning. This is DongHo Shin from the System LSI business. In the first quarter, System LSI earnings increased quarter-over-quarter, a result of rising supply of 5G mobile processors and ultra-high-resolution image sensors, launch of new flagship and high-end smartphones by domestic and Chinese customers. In particular, we continue to lead technology in image sensors with the launch of new product featuring nano cell, a complementary technology for low-light performance, our ultra-high 108 megapixel chips.
In addition, we diversified our product portfolio by launching a security chip that protects personal information on mobile devices and a powerful management chip, power management chip for heatless earphones, which have been rapidly gaining popularity.
In the second quarter of this year, we expect overall demand to contract due to fading impacts of launches of flagship smartphones, production disruption at global manufacturers and soft consumer sentiment due to COVID-19. We will monitor fluctuations in market and customer demand while focusing on minimizing impact by maximizing the supply of high-pixel image sensors and expanding 5G SoC market. In the second half of this year, demand for 5G SoCs and premium image sensors is forecast to remain solid due to rise in the number of 5G subscribers, launch of new low to middle cheap-priced 5G smartphones and increase in adoption of high-resolution sensors and multicamera with triple front sensors in China. However, COVID-19 has greatly increased market uncertainties and it is difficult to determine the timing or stable economic recovery. Therefore, we will closely monitor the market and secure solid SCM as well as respond flexibly to any changes while also seeking to enter new applications through highly competitive new products. Thank you.

Shawn Han
Good morning. This is Shawn Han from the Foundry business. In the first quarter, even though demand for 5G and image sensor chips increased, thanks to launches of 5G smartphones and major customers and the increasing trend toward higher camera specs, overall, earnings decreased slightly compared to the previous quarter due to a decrease in the demand for HPC chips from China. Revenue in the quarter, however, grew in double digits compared to the same period last year.
We responded in a timely manner to customer demand with operations of the EUV dedicated V1 line and stable mass production of EUV 6 nano products. We also added to our foundation for growth by preparing to mass produce computing chips for major customers, completing design of HPC products as well as by expanding orders from large companies for chips using consumer applications.
In the second quarter, we expect earnings to improve sequentially, but we must be mindful of uncertainties caused by the COVID-19. We plan to closely monitor the situation and keep diversifying our products, customer base and use applications in line with changes in mobile demand.
This quarter, we aim to expand leadership in EUV processes with start-up mass production of 5-nano products alongside our efforts to keep monitoring and securing orders from 5-nano and below processes. In addition, we will endeavor to further stabilize our base for future business by completing the design of computing and EUV products for automotive and mobile applications.
In the second half of this year, to address current COVID-19 uncertainties, we plan to focus on diversifying applications beyond mobile to include areas such as consumer and computing applications. In addition, we will continue investing in advanced process nodes and start mass producing 5-nano products this year as mentioned. And we will also continuously improve final derivative FinFET processes to enhance price, performance, competitiveness and also focus on the development of the GAA 3-nano process. Thank you.
KwonYoung Choi
Good morning. This is KwonYoung Choi from the Planning department of Samsung Display. In the first quarter, overall Display earnings decreased quarter-on-quarter due to reduced shipments of OLED and HD panels. To be more specific, mobile display earnings were lower quarter-on-quarter as shipments and utilization declined amid low seasonality. Meanwhile, in the large display business, losses narrowed slightly quarter-on-quarter thanks to a combination of short-term market factors such as movements in ASP and foreign exchange rate.
Looking ahead to the second quarter. We expect earnings in the mobile display business to decrease due to falling demand in developed regions such as U.S. and Europe caused by COVID-19 pandemic. The display industry is specialized by nature offering customized products to each customer, so a significant drop in customer demand will inevitably lead to a substantial decline in shipments and, thus, profit. To address this, we will strive to secure profitability by enhancing sales based on the differentiated performance and design of our mobile panels.
For the large display business, earnings are likely to remain weak on the risks of an accelerated market slowdown in the wake of the postponement of mega sporting events such as Tokyo Olympics. In response, we'll endeavor to raise profitability by focusing on our business on high value-added panels for TVs and monitors that offers features such as ultra-high-resolution and ultra-large screens and cover designs.
Next, I would like to share our outlook for the display market and our core strategies for the second half of this year. In the mobile display business, uncertainties are likely to linger due to the spread of -- spread and effect of the COVID-19. Accordingly, we are preparing for various scenarios by enhancing our ability to safely respond to market changes. In particular, we are determined to fortify leadership in the OLED market by exploring new application areas, including foldables and other IT devices to actively address our customers' needs in various smart devices after the COVID-19 crisis ends.

A global slow -- global economic downturn combined with intensified competition will lead to unfavorable business conditions, but we will keep investing to improve our technology capabilities and cost competitiveness. For the large display business, we'll seamlessly fulfill our -- all our customers' needs amid the scaling down of the LCD business, and we'll expedite the development of products featuring our new technologies such as QLED display. Thank you.
JongMin Lee
Good morning. I'm JongMin Lee from the Mobile Communications business. I'd like to share our first quarter results and outlook for the IM division. In the first quarter, overall market demand drastically decreased quarter-on-quarter as a result of supply chain issues in China caused by the COVID-19 break -- outbreak only in this quarter and travel restrictions in the last few weeks of the quarter following the global spread of the pandemic. As the impact of COVID-19, including those on logistics, began to take effect in March, our smartphone shipments also decreased quarter-on-quarter. However, we maintained sound profitability quarter-on-quarter by efficiently deploying marketing investment by improving overall product mix while increasing the sales portion of our premium and 5G model. In particular, flagship ASP rose compared to previous years thanks to a higher-than-expected sales portion of the S20 Ultra and solid sales trends of our new foldable Galaxy Z Flip. The Galaxy S20 released in February provides our customers with new and more innovative mobile experiences by offering a fully enhanced AI-powered camera and 5G availability in all 3 S20 variants.
The newly launched Galaxy Z Flip, our second foldable after Galaxy Fold last year, is highly acclaimed among millennials and female customers because of its stylish and compact design as well as the flex mode, which helps to fully enjoy the new form factor. For the network business, our performance improved quarter-on-quarter as 5G commercialization expanded in Korea as well as abroad.
Now let me move on to the outlook for the second quarter. With the global spread of COVID-19, demand is expected to drop sharply in most regions due to the economic downturn caused by lockdown across the globe and a corresponding decline in consumer sentiment. As the market shrinks and effects of store closures continue to have direct impact, a drop in sales of our major products and overall performance seems inevitable. Although market uncertainty is higher than ever, we will focus on improving cost effectiveness and strengthening online and B2B channels. In case there are additional disruptions at our production sites, we will respond by effectively utilizing our diversified manufacturing capabilities around the globe. However, we are committed to protecting the health and safety of our employees as well as preventing community spread. We have been thoroughly implementing disinfections and prevention measures in our offices and production facilities in all regions.
For the network business, it is possible that investments in 5 network will be reduced or delayed domestically and internationally as more effects of COVID-19 unfold.
Finally, I will share our outlook for the second half. In the midst of uncertainties such as the possibility of the prolonged pandemic and the timing of market recovery, we expect the competition to intensify further as companies try to recover from weakness in the first half. For the mobile business, while continuing to offer differentiation in the premium segment with new foldable and Note model launches, we plan to widen the range of choices for our customers and enhance competitiveness within each price range by introducing 5G models to our mass market lineup.

In addition, we will also improve operational efficiency across all areas, including R&D, production, supply, channel and marketing. For the network business, despite uncertainties around the 5G invest plan, we will continue to strengthen our technological competitiveness while improving our 5G business compatibilities globally for the mid- to long term. Thank you.
Kim Louis
Good morning, everyone. My name is Kim WonHee from Visual Display business. First of all, I'd like to review the market condition and our performance for the first quarter 2020. In Q1, TV demand declined both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year as the market entered low season following end year peak seasonality and as well as due to a decline in global demand starting in March. For Samsung, our earnings declined year-on-year due to a sharp downturn in market conditions. Despite the difficulties, we continue to solidify our leadership by increasing our market share not only in the total TV market but also in the 2,500 above premium segment mostly driven by increased sales of QLED, super large screen TVs and lifestyle TVs. For digital appliances, despite the reduction in consumer confidence, our results slightly improved both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year largely due to a growing sale of premium products, which include those for the Grande AI washing machine and dryer.
Next, let me share our market outlook for the second quarter and the second half of 2020. The TV market in Q2 is projected to decline both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year mostly due to deteriorating market conditions overall and the postponements of major sporting events such as Euro 2020 and the Olympic Games. Under such circumstances, we will focus our efforts on maintaining sales, identifying new sales opportunities in each country mainly online and concentrating on risk management. Although our total sales are decreasing due to the shutdown of off-line stores in multiple countries, the online portion is increasing. We will actively address growing online demand by strengthening our efforts in target marketing while also expanding our online product lineup and promotional offerings. Moreover, we will work to satisfy the needs of consumers related to lifestyle changes such as increased use of IT devices caused by prolonged stays at home.
For those who enjoy content such as movies, sports and gaming, we will boost sales of super large screen TVs including our QLED 8K models that deliver immersive experiences based on the best picture quality and dy