Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (OTC:SSNLF) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call July 28, 2021  9:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ben Suh - SVP, IR
Han Jin Man - SVP, Semiconductor Business, Memory 
Harry Cho - VP, System LSI
Shawn Han - SVP, Samsung Foundry
Choi Kwon Young - VP of Samsung Display
Sung-Koo Kim - Mobile Communications Business
Song Won-Jun - VP, Visual Display 
Conference Call Participants
Nicolas Gaudois - UBS
Kim Dongwon - KB Securities
Peter Lee - Citigroup
Claire Kyung - Hana Financial Investment
Kim Sung Kyu - Daiwa Securities
Lee Soonhak - Hanwha Investment & Securities
Doh Hyunwoo - NH Investment & Securities
Kim Young-gun - Mirae Asset Securities
Operator
Good morning, and good evening. Thank you all for joining this conference call. And now we will begin the conference of the fiscal year 2021 second quarter earnings results by Samsung Electronics. This conference will start with a presentation followed by a divisional Q&A session. [Operator Instructions].
Now we shall commence the presentation on the fiscal year 2021 second quarter earnings results by Samsung Electronics.
Ben Suh
Welcome, everyone. This is Ben Suh from Investor Relations. Thank you for joining our earnings call for the second quarter of 2021. For additional details regarding our quarterly results, please refer to the earnings presentation, which is available on our IR website at www.samsung.com/global/ir.
On the call with me today, representing each of the business units are, EVP, Han Jin-Man, representing Memory; VP, Harry Cho for System LSI; SVP, Han Seung-Hoon for Foundry; SVP, Choi Kwon-Young for Samsung Display; VP, Kim Sung-Koo for IT and Mobile; and VP, Song Won-Jun for Visual Display. In addition, VP, Kang Tae-Gyu from Investor Relations is present on this call as well.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements we will be making today are forward-looking based on the environment as we currently see it, and all such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed in today's discussion.
Before we present our quarterly results, let me first address the second quarter dividend. Today, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of KRW361 per share for both common and preferred stock. The total payout for the second quarter is the same as it was for the first quarter, which is KRW2.45 trillion or 1/4 of the 2021 annual total of KRW9.8 trillion in accordance with the shareholder return policy we announced in January. The dividend will be paid in mid-August.
Now I would like to present the results for the second quarter. Total revenue in the second quarter came in at KRW63.7 trillion, down slightly sequentially, mainly due to lower smartphone sales amid seasonally weak demand and component supply shortages. However, we achieved a new all-time high for revenue in a respective quarter for the second quarter in a row where our active response to server-led memory demand and the solid performance of premium home appliances led such results. Compared to the same period last year, revenue increased by 20.2%, mainly due to strong sales of memory, TVs and digital appliances. Gross profit increased by KRW2.7 trillion sequentially to KRW26.6 trillion, as a significant increase in contributions from the component business, led by migration-enabled cost reductions in memory, more than offset declines in the IM division that were mainly due to disruptions in smartphone production.
Gross margin grew considerably to 41.8% with improvement across all of our businesses, especially in the Semiconductor business. SG&A expenses came in at KRW14 trillion, down slightly quarter-on-quarter and also as a percentage of sales, largely due to a reduction in advertising and promotional costs. Operating profit increased by KRW3.2 trillion quarter-on-quarter to KRW12.6 trillion. As market conditions improved in the memory market, operations normalized at the Austin foundry fab and as a one-off gain and price increases lifted profits in the display business.
Our finished product businesses also contributed to the strong results, maintaining solid profitability by effectively managing our global supply chain amid strong headwinds such as component supply shortages.
Operating margin increased considerably to 19.7%. On a year-on-year basis, both operating profit and operating margin increased with improvement in all of our business units.
I will now briefly review the results of each business unit. For the DS division, results improved significantly both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year. In Memory, bit shipments surpassed bit growth guidance, price increases exceeded forecast, and we also improved our cost competitiveness. Profits in system semiconductors increased as production normalized at the Austin fab.
In display, earnings improved quarter-on-quarter despite weak seasonality for mobile products, primarily due to a one-off gain as well as an increase in overall ASP. For the Mobile business, sales declined sequentially, influenced by a component supply shortage and COVID-19-related production disruptions amid weak seasonality. However, we secured solid profitability by effectively managing our global supply chain capabilities, improving our cost structure and marketing efficiency and with another quarter of solid contributions from tablets and wearables. 
The CE division once again generated strong results by expanding sales of premium products amid a continuation of pent-up demand. Regarding currency effects, slight strength in the U.S. dollar, the euro and major emerging currencies against the Korean won positively affected both the component and finished product businesses with a combined effect of approximately KRW200 billion to operating profit when compared to the previous quarter.
Next, I would like to share our business outlook for the second half of the year. We expect to see favorable overall market conditions in the component business, and we will focus on enhancing our leadership position in both products and technology. As for our finished product businesses, we aim to keep profitability at a solid level by strengthening our leadership and lineups in the premium segment. However, risks of continued disruptions in the component supply and uncertainties related to COVID-19 are likely to persist.
For Memory, we expect continued demand growth from server and mobile, propelled respectively by rising adoption of a new CPU and releases of new smartphones by major customers. We will improve our market leadership with bit growth driven from our accelerated migration to 15-nanometer DRAM and 6th generation V-NAND and by expanding the application of EUV in our DRAM production.
In system semiconductors, we expect demand for system LSI products to increase as we enter strong seasonality for smartphones. And foundry will accelerate growth by expanding Pyeongtaek S5 Line capacity and by adjusting pricing to enable future investment cycles.
For display, we expect the Mobile Panel business to improve its performance as major customers launch new flagship models. And we will focus on finalizing the mass production process for QD display to enable product shipments to start within the year.
In the Mobile businesses, we will target achieving solid revenue and profits by boosting the competitiveness of our smartphone lineup with the launch of greatly enhanced foldable models and the expansion of our mass market 5G models. We will also continue to grow sales of our Galaxy ecosystem lineup.
For Network, we will drive revenue growth in our key markets including North America and continue to explore new opportunities in Europe and other parts of the world.
In the CE division, we will solidify our leadership in the premium TV market by expanding sales of high-value products such as Neo QLED and Super Big TVs. We also aim to increase DA revenue by bolstering global sales of our bespoke product line.
Let me now move on to capital expenditures. CapEx in the second quarter was KRW13.6 trillion, with KRW12.5 trillion invested in Semiconductor and KRW0.6 trillion in display. The cumulative total for the first half of the year was KRW23.3 trillion, with KRW20.9 trillion in Semiconductor and KRW1.4 trillion in display. Memory investments concentrated on addressing growing future demand via capacity expansions and process migrations, including 15-nanometer DRAM and 128-layer V-NAND in Pyeongtaek and Xi'an. Foundry investments focused on capacity expansions for advanced processes such as 5-nanometer EUV to respond to customer demand.
Finally, I would like to share some of our activities and key achievements in sustainability management. First, the Board of Directors today approved to reorganize the Governance Committee into the Sustainability Committee. The new committee, through its increased duties, will strengthen the Board's role and responsibility in sustainability management. The Sustainability Committee will assume the roles of the Governance Committee, which include practicing corporate social responsibilities and enhancing shareholder value.
In addition, the committee will also address a broad range of ESG issues, including climate change, the circular economy, labor and human rights, diversity and inclusion, supply chain and ethical management, thus setting the direction for and monitoring the progress of the company's sustainability management. The committee will be composed entirely of independent directors to ensure its independence and will also receive reports on the main issues discussed at the Sustainability Council, a company-wide consultative body. The Sustainability Committee connects sustainability management throughout the company from each business unit right through to the Board of Directors, advancing our goal of making sustainability an inherent part of our business.
Next, I will brief you on the key takeaways from our 2021 sustainability report released in June. We actively pursued company-wide initiatives to strengthen the sustainability of our products and services, including programs such as Galaxy upcycling in the Samsung Global Goals campaign in the IM division, the use of eco-packaging in the CE division and our commitment to increase energy efficiency of products in the DS division. We were recognized by the U.K.'s carbon trust for our management of water use at the Hwaseong campus, and we received zero waste to landfill validation of Gold level or above for all of our semiconductor sites.
The sustainability report also summarizes our responses to COVID-19 and our commitment to our employees, partners, customers and communities, including our efforts through various partner support programs. For more details, the report is available on our IR website in the Sustainability Report section. Our company will continue to promote sustainability management and transparently communicate our direction and achievements with our stakeholders.
I will now turn the conference call over to the gentlemen from each business unit to present second quarter performances and outlooks for their corresponding business segment. We will start with the Memory business. Thank you.
Han Jin Man
Good morning. This is Han Jin-Man from the Memory Global Sales and Marketing office. In the second quarter, our shipments exceeded our bit guidance due to strong memory demand mainly from server and PC. Moreover, higher-than-expected increases in ASP for both DRAM and NAND combined with cost reductions from expanding the cutting-edge portion of processes contributed to a significant improvement in our results.
In the case of DRAM, mobile demand was affected somewhat in the short term by the spread of COVID-19 in major smartphone-producing countries as well as by manufacturers production disruptions caused by component supply issues.
On the other hand, for servers, on top of recovering investment sentiment in enterprise, new set builds at OEMs have increased due to the release of a new CPU, and demand from data centers stayed strong, backed by solid demand for cloud. In addition, a continuation of the stay-at-home trend kept PC demand at a strong level, while demand for Chromebooks for education has also increased ahead of a new semester.
Consumer products such as TVs and set-top boxes also showed robust set demand, and the move towards high density has accelerated with the spread of 4K content and streaming trends. 
Demand in the graphics market has been strong, owing to increased demand related to cryptocurrencies, and growing demand for graphic cards for gaming PCs is a byproduct of widespread home entertainment usage. Thus, the market for game console showed robust demand, backed by initial sales successes and launches of new titles. By preemptively adjusting our product mix, we actively addressed strong demand from the server and PC markets, and exceeded our previous bit growth guidance.
Next, I'd like to talk about NAND. For mobile, the set build growth was not significant due to component supply issues, but demand was solid from the high-density trend centering on major customers. For server SSDs, demand for 8-terabyte and 16-terabyte products was strong, thanks to increased server investment and high-density trend at major data center companies. Demand for client SSDs also stayed robust, primarily from laptops as online activities such as remote working and education continued. We achieved shipments that exceeded our bit guidance by actively addressing increasing demand for server SSDs and strong demand for mobile and client SSDs while expanding the sales portion of 128-layer 6th generation V-NAND.
Now let's move on to the outlook for the second half. The market view for the second half is a mix of concerns and expectations. The spread of variant COVID strains requires urgent attention and supply issues of some non-memory chips are likely to persist and various geopolitical issues escalating, all of which are risk factors to market demand. Positively, however, we expect the fundamentals of market demand to be robust. First of all, in the case of mobile, along with the high-density trend for memory related to the expansion of 5G, launches of new models from major manufacturers bode well for demand. Furthermore, for servers, we expect enterprise investment sentiment to recover with the expansion of vaccine supply combined with economic stimuli. We expect server demand to be strong with the rising adoption of the new CPU alongside the ongoing trend toward high density.
In the PC market, due to prolonged effects of COVID-19, we are witnessing fundamental changes in the way people buy and use their PCs. With the proliferation of a hybrid work model, we expect enterprise demand to be strong while replacement demand should be solid, driven by the release of a new OS. On the other hand, our inventory has fallen to a substantially low level due to the impacts of our higher-than-expected shipments in the last quarter.
In this situation, we will maintain our leading position in cost competitiveness while generating bit growth by expanding migration and production of our main nodes such as 15-nano DRAM and 128-layer V-NAND. Moreover, amid such uncertain market conditions, we are working to preemptively identify various issues that can affect customer demand such as issues in the supply chain. Accordingly, we are flexibly managing our product mix to better meet market demand.
Also, we are securing additional capabilities to stably supply our products in a timely manner even amid demand fluctuations by extending the range of our demand forecast for each application and by using big data to sharpen our own predictive tools.
Furthermore, our 14-nano DRAM is the smallest design rule in the industry's 14-nano class. We will mass produce this product in the second half by applying EUV to 5 layers. In addition, our preparation is going smoothly for mass production of consumer SSD, which adopts double-stack 176-layer 7th generation V-NAND technology, and we expect to start mass production in the second half as planned. We, as the leading company in comprehensive memory solutions, will spearhead the establishment of the next-generation ecosystem of the IT industry. Thank you.
Harry Cho
Good morning. This is Harry Cho from System LSI business. In the second quarter, solid demand for 100-mega pixel image sensors, mainly from Chinese customers and the increased supply of DDIs and other products backed by normalization at Austin fab contributed to earnings. However, earnings improvements were limited somewhat by a decline in launch effects of major customers' flagship smartphones and the seasonal decrease in such demand.
We released a variety of products in the second quarter with industry-leading technology. In particular, we launched an image sensor that applies 0.6 micrometer ISOCELL, the smallest pixel size in the industry. And we released our first image sensor product for automotive. In addition, we expanded our business areas by releasing 3 types of PMICs for DDR5 DIMM modules. 
Now let me share our business outlook. In the second half of the year, especially in the third quarter, we expect overall earnings to improve sequentially due to increasing demand for SOCs and OLED DDIs as we enter the peak season for smartphones and also due to growing demand for the past related to rising global IT and TV demand. We will maximize our capability to supply chips by strengthening cooperation with major foundry companies and will flexibly adjust our product mix to prioritize high value-added products. I think so, we aim to achieve double-digit sales growth this year. Thank you.
Shawn Han
Good morning. This is Shawn Han from the Foundry business. In the second quarter, we improved our earnings sequentially and set a new high for Q2 sales by maximizing our chip supply capabilities and through the earlier than scheduled normalization at the Austin fab. In addition, as demand for major process products such as CIS, RF, mobile dBi is expected to keep growing. We work to strengthen our competitiveness by improving existing processes and diversifying our portfolio through the development of various new derivative processes.
Turning to our outlook. In the second half, we expect overall demand to exceed supply due to rising demand from the accelerating penetration of 5G, the continuation of the work-from-home trend and growing demand for safety stock from customers. As a result, we believe our overall market growth will be higher than our previous estimate. To address increasing demand, accelerate growth and resolve growing industry concerns over supply, we will maximize our capabilities to supply chips by full-fledged operation of Pyeongtaek S5 Line, especially for mass production of second-generation of 5-nano and first-generation 4-nano-based products. We are targeting annual sales growth of well over 20% as well as significantly improved profit. We will work to achieve these goals through pricing strategies to sustain future investments, customer and application diversification and capacity expansions. Thank you.
Choi Kwon Young
Good morning. I'm KwonYoung Choi from the business planning department at Samsung Display. In the second quarter, although sales of mobile display business declined quarter-on-quarter affected by weak seasonality, operating margin remained strong as the supply of OLED components has been more stable than that of LCD panels, with set manufacturers continuing to prefer the adoption OLED panels. On a year-on-year basis, both sales and operating profit increased substantially, thanks to growing adoption of OLED panels on the top of lower base.
For the large display business, the conversion of manufacturing lines to 2D display weighted on revenue quarter-on-quarter, but a rise in ASP of panels for TVs and monitors have improved profitability.
Next, let me share the outlook and our core strategies for the second half of 2021. For the mobile display business, we expect earnings to rise compared to the first half of 2021, spurred by new product launches at major smartphone customers and an increase in supply of high value-added products, including foldables. At the same time, however, you may see a potential drop in shipments for some products due to a supply crunch of certain components such as DDIs. Meanwhile, starting from the second half of 2021, we are preparing full-fledged sales growth of IT and portable gaming products featuring OLED screens, satisfying consumers that are accustomed to the quality of OLED smartphone screens. We at Samsung Display have been satisfying the expectation of consumers and maintaining a substantial gap with our competitors with timely and successful commercialization of new technologies each year, including on-cell touch and whole design and -- et cetera.
We will further fortify our innovative leadership by aggressively introducing under panel camera technology and technology related to low power consumption in the near future. For the large display business, we have been strategically preparing QD display to target the high-end market, and we expect manufacturing to start in the second half of this year. We will channel all our efforts to totally prepare its development and mass production so QD display can make a successful debut as planned. Thank you for listening.
Sung-Koo Kim
Good morning. This is Sung-Koo Kim from the Mobile Communications business. I would like to discuss the IM division's Q2 results and outlook for the second half of the year.
In Q2 2021, market demand is expected to have decreased quarter-on-quarter due to seasonality and a resurgence of COVID-19. For our mobile business, revenue decreased from the previous quarter due to the component supply constraint in the mobile industry and production issues at our factory in Vietnam. Under these circumstances, we strive to minimize the impacts by prioritizing critical products and regions, utilizing our global SCM capabilities to optimally rebalance supply. Meanwhile, products in our Galaxy ecosystem, including tablets, PCs and wearables, contributed substantially to the Q2 performance. In addition, our improved cost structure and efficient resource allocation helped us maintain a solid double-digit operating margin.
In the Network business, our performance improved quarter-on-quarter backed by growth in North America and 5G network expansion domestically.
Let me move on to the second half outlook. As adoption of 5G and contactless trend continue to drive, we expect the annual mobile market to recover to 2019 level. However, uncertainties regarding the component supply constraint and COVID-19 are likely to linger.
In our Mobile business, we will continue to strive to further solidify our leadership in the premium segment by mainstreaming the affordable category and maintaining sales momentum of Galaxy S series throughout the year. In the third quarter, we concentrate on successfully launching new foldable smartphones. We prioritized consumer needs and worked to reflect such needs in our new Z Series models, which offer remarkably enhanced product competitiveness and user experiences. In addition to our own innovations, we have enhanced the open collaboration with our global leading partners to add more meaningful innovations to our customers' daily usage. We expect to provide unique mobile experiences and enrich customer lives.
Onto our Galaxy S series. It is our flagship lineup that features premium design and the utmost innovative technologies, including professional-grade cameras and superior display. We continue to generate solid sales of Galaxy S series by emphasizing their optimized user experiences and unique value.
Regarding our mass-market smartphones, we provide new innovative technologies and more broadly adopt 5G, including in entry-level models. With these efforts, we will proactively address various regional needs while also broadening our customer choices. In addition, we will work to increase sales of Galaxy ecosystem products, including tablets, PCs and wearables, by promoting easier, more convenient connected experiences throughout our extended Galaxy ecosystem.
We will strive to achieve solid sales and profits in the second half by carrying out the strategies that we have outlined. In the meantime, we will continue to strengthen our foundation for future growth by maximizing customer satisfaction and increasing retention based on enhanced user experiences within the Galaxy ecosystem.
For the Network business, we aim to promote growth of the business by increasing sales in North America and Japan. And we will continue to seek new business opportunities in Europe and other regions. Thank you.
Song Won-Jun
Good morning, everyone. This is Song Won-Jun from the Sales and Marketing team of Visual Display. I'd like to review the market condition and our performance in the second quarter of 2021.
First, the TV market in the second quarter contracted quarter-on-quarter because of seasonality but increased compared to last year. Even amid supply issues of some materials, Samsung optimally allocated resources and proactively fulfilled demand for major sports events in the second quarter, such as Euro Cup. Thus, we maintained solid profit by expanding sales with a focus on premium products. In particular, the newly launched Neo QLED includes upgrades in all aspects, offering not only its outstanding picture quality but also sound design and usability, and it garnered positive feedback from numerous consumer reviews and major magazines. Based on the positive responses, Samsung expanded sales of Neo QLED in full swing from second quarter and improved our product mix.
Furthermore, Lifestyle TVs, our unique product line, are securing a strong position in the market by actively targeting various consumer passion points such as indoor home cinema and outdoor viewing and by providing experiences the conventional TVs cannot offer.
For digital appliances in the second quarter, as people spend more time at home, consumers become more interested in their home surroundings and home decor. Also, pent-up demand continued to affect the market amid government's economic stimulus packages and strong housing markets. Samsung successfully launched the bespoke globally in May and expanded sales based on positive feedback from major markets. In addition, by launching new lifestyle appliances such as a shoe dresser and cordless stick vacuum cleaners, we fulfill the diversifying needs of our consumers and expanded our sales.
Now let us look at the outlook for CE in the second half of 2021. As the TV market moves into peak seasonality, we expect market demand to increase half-on-half. However, business uncertainties related to COVID-19, including effects of the surging delta variant, are likely to persist. Samsung will keep monitoring the rapidly changing market conditions and will swiftly respond to changes in demand using our global SCM competitiveness, thereby securing profitability and maintaining our leadership in the market. To do so, based on closing collaboration with channel partners, we'll plan peak season promotion tailored to each region to expand sales and will keep improving our product mix.
Also, in order to capitalize on the trend of increasing online purchases during peak seasonality, we'll improve our contactless sales infrastructure by enhancing the online buying experiences for our consumers while also expanding digital content. Moreover, we will strengthen cooperation with online channels to expand the sales opportunities.
For digital appliances market in the second half, we also expect uncertainties related to COVID-19 to remain high, and external risks such as increases in low material and logistics costs are likely to linger. However, Samsung will strengthen the bespoke lineup with top-notch products and expand its presence by launching in more regions while also carrying out various online and offline marketing activities. By doing so, we will craft our own unique brand image of providing customizable digital appliances, not only the domestic market but also global ones. Moreover, we will enhance our overall operational efficiency and will respond to external risks by optimizing the allocation of global resources by region and by further strengthening supply competitiveness based on product modularization. Through these efforts, we will continue to lead the digital appliances industry. Thank you for listening.
Ben Suh
Okay. So that sums up the second quarter results presentations. Before we move on to the Q&A session, I would like to share several data points in key business areas. For DRAM in the second quarter, our bit growth was in the low-teen percentage and ASP increased by a percentage in the high teens. For the third quarter, we expect market bit growth to be in the low single-digit range and our bit growth should be around the market level. For the full year, we expect market bit growth to be in the mid-20% range and our bit growth should be similar.
For NAND, in the second quarter, our bit growth was a high single-digit percentage and ASP increased in the mid-single digit range. For the third quarter, market bit growth is likely to be in the low teens, and our bit growth should be around the market level. For the full year, we expect market bit growth to be around 40%, and our bit growth should be similar to the market.
In the Display Panel business in the second quarter, the OLED portion of sales was in the mid-90% range and OLED sales volume declined by 1% in the high single digits.
In the Mobile business, in the second quarter, sales volume was around 60 million units for handsets and 8 million units for tablets. The blended ASP, including tablets, was approximately USD 233 and the smartphone portion of handset shipments was in the mid-90% range. For the third quarter, on a sequential basis, we expect shipments of handsets to grow but should stay similar for tablets, while blended ASP is likely to increase. We expect the smartphone portion of handsets to be in the mid- to high-90% range.
In the TV business, in the second quarter, sales volume declined by a percentage in the high teens, but we expect shipments in the third quarter to grow by a high single-digit percentage.
With that, we will now move on to the Q&A session.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions]
Unidentified Company Representative
Starting with this call, we are accepting questions via our web page in advance of an earnings release as part of our efforts to strengthen communication and a variety of questions have been actually submitted.
Among all of the questions that were submitted, we would like to first answer the question that -- regarding the company's technology competitiveness, which actually was a topic that we see high interest from the market as well as investors. So the first question that we received goes as follows. I would like to hear the company's thoughts and explanations on the saying that the technology gap between Samsung and other rival companies are narrowing. In particular, I would like to know whether the company has any concerns over its competitiveness after the development of the 176-layer from other companies and whether its cost and price