Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (OTC:SSNLF) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call January 27, 2021  8:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ben Suh - Executive Vice President, Head of Investor Relations
Yoon-Ho Choi - President, Chief Financial Officer
Han JinMan - Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Business, Memory
Harry Cho - Vice President, System LSI Business Unit
Dongho Shin - Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Business, System LSI
Seung Hoon Han - Senior Vice President, Samsung Foundry
KwonYoung Choi - Senior Vice President, Samsung Display
Kim Sunggu - Vice President, IT & Mobile business
Song WoonJun - Vice President, Visual Display Business
Kang TaeGyu - Investor Relations
Conference Call Participants
Chang-Won Chung - Nomura
Ricky Seo - HSBC
J.J. Park - JPMorgan
Peter Li - Citigroup
Nicolas Gaudois - UBS
Dongwon Kim - KB Securities
Hyun-Woo Doh - NH Securities
Sung kyu Kim - Daiwa Capital Markets
Claire Kim - Hana Financial Investment
Operator
Good morning. Thank you very much for joining our Conference Call. We will now start the 2020 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call of Samsung Electronics. This conference call will start with a presentation by the company, followed by a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions]
Now we will start the presentation by Samsung Electronics.
Ben Suh
Good morning. This is Ben Suh from Investor Relations. Thank you for joining our earnings call for the fourth quarter of year 2020. Before we announce our fourth quarter results, I would like to invite President and CFO, Yoon-Ho Choi to share details on our shareholder return policy regarding both the additional return for the period just ended last December, as well as the new policy regarding the next term.
Now I would like to turn it over to our CFO.
Yoon-Ho Choi
Good morning. This is Yoon-Ho Choi, CFO of Samsung Electronics. It's a pleasure to talk to our shareholders and market professionals in this call today. As always, thank you for your continued support for Samsung Electronics, and I wish you and your family good health.
The Board of Directors and Executives are committed to enhancing shareholder value. With that, I would like to provide an update on two resolutions regarding our shareholder return policy that were approved by the BoD today.
To fulfill our commitment for our shareholder return policy for year 2018 to 2020, the Board of Directors today approved a one-time special cash dividend of KRW10.7 trillion. This was calculated by deducting the regular dividend of KRW28.9 trillion from 50% of KRW79.2 trillion, which is the total free cash flow for the previous three-year policy term.
As a result of the joint efforts of our employees and stakeholders, including our partner companies, amidst numerous difficulties, including COVID-19, we are able to deliver results that enable this special dividend.
This special cash dividend of KRW10.7 trillion, or KRW1,578 per share will be paid out to shareholders together with the year-end regular dividend of KRW354 per common share and KRW355 per preferred share.
In April, shareholders of record as of end of 2020 will receive KRW1,932 per common share and KRW1,933 per preferred share after approval in March at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Now, I would move on to the shareholder return policy for the next term. When considering the direction for our new policy, the Board of Directors reviewed various factors in depth, including ways to enhance shareholder value, the business environment and our investment strategies and financial structure.
As you are aware, the global business environment has been and is still mired in unprecedented macro uncertainties caused by global trade conflicts and the spread of COVID-19 significantly decreasing visibility for our outlook. Even under these circumstances, R&D investments, as well as capital expenditures are expected to increase, this is due to intensifying competition, especially in foundry and increasing technology challenges. And considering the dynamic changes in the industry landscape, we need to ensure we have the resources to execute on M&A activities to seize opportunities for growth.
For the period covering 2018 to 2020, we changed our shareholder return policy with a focus on dividend, significantly increasing the regular dividend amount to enhance the predictability on total shareholder return.
For the next term, we will continue with this policy direction and have decided to increase the annual dividend to KRW9.8 trillion. Regarding the shareholder return pool beyond the dividends, for the 2018 to 2020 term, uncertainties such as COVID-19 caused rapid changes in the external environment and kept us from executing on an early return.
For this term, from 2021 to 2023, we kept the shareholder return pool at 50% of the free cash flow generated over the three-year period. But that said, we will make a regular announcement each year, sharing the annual free cash flow to enhance clarity on the amount of additional expected fee churn. Also, if a significant amount of expected return has been generated, we will actively consider executing a portion of it at the close of each year's results.
Our Board of Directors and Executives are well aware of shareholder concerns over our increasing cash levels over the last three years. For the 2021 to '23 periods, difficult business conditions and macro uncertainties are expected, but we believe there are opportunities as well.
Market growth is accelerating with increasing digitalization and technology advances, semiconductor, display, and mobile communication businesses will play crucial roles in such growth. We will further enhance our leadership in the market for our established businesses and at the same time, strengthen the foundation for continued growth in emerging businesses.
For this, we will leverage our resources to increase strategic capital expenditures and execute M&A opportunities. We ask for your support and understanding as we solidify our foundation for sustainable growth.
The Board of Directors and Executives firmly believe that the most effective and reliable way to enhance shareholder value is through continued growth of the company. Therefore, on top of increasing our business competitiveness, we will do our best to enhance shareholder value with global level achievements in ESG and compliance management that will enhance and grow our corporate value.
As always, we deeply appreciate your trust and support and we look forward to more engagement with our shareholders and active communication with the market. We hope that you and those close to you stay strong and in good health. Thank you.
Ben Suh
Yes. Thank you, Mr. Choi. We will now have a Q&A session about the shareholder return policy that was just announced. As you know, we also have our full fourth quarter earnings conference call left that needs to follow the Q&A session. So given the limited amount of time, we will only take three questions, and each person will be limited to one question. The Q&A session will be consecutively interpreted.
Hello. This is Ben Suh again. Now let's begin our earnings call for the fourth quarter of 2020. With me, representing each of the business units are, Mr. Han JinMan, Executive Vice President of the Memory Global Sales and Marketing Office; Mr. Dongho Shin, Vice President of the System LSI Marketing team; Mr. Han Seung Hoon, Senior Vice President of the Foundry Marketing team; Mr. Choi KwonYoung, Senior Vice President of Samsung Display; Mr. Kim Sunggu, Vice President of the IT and Mobile business; and Mr. Song WoonJun, Vice President of the Visual Display business. In addition, Mr. Kang TaeGyu from Investor Relations is present on this call as well. Among the presenters today, Mr. Choi Yoon-Ho, Kim Sunggu and Song WoonJun are newly joining the IR presentation.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements we'll be making today are forward-looking based on the environment as we currently see it, and all such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and that may cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed in today's discussion. I will start with the results for the fourth quarter of 2020.
When I delivered my first earnings call as the new Head of IR last year, new flows on emerging health risks were starting to increase. As we all know, that risk transformed into a global crisis and created an incredibly challenging environment for business and individuals alike.
One year later, despite all efforts, we remain vigilant as the crisis is not yet behind us. Throughout this, our management and employees have done their utmost overcome all obstacles. And as a result, I am pleased to report that we once again achieved solid results in this difficult environment.
Total revenue in the quarter declined 8.1% quarter-on-quarter to KRW61.6 trillion, a solid growth in display revenue from strong OLED demand was outweighed by intensifying competition for our mobile business in CE division, along with price declines for memory.
Compared to last year, total revenue increased by 2.8% and as component demand improved. Gross profit decreased KRW3.2 trillion sequentially to KRW23.7 trillion, mainly due to results in the semiconductor business and IM division and gross margin declined to 38.6%. Both gross profit and gross margin improved year-on-year, led by the Display business.
SG&A expenses increased slightly sequentially and also as a percentage of sales, mainly due to higher marketing expenses caused by intensifying competition. Despite the Display business improved performance, operating profit was down KRW3.3 trillion quarter-on-quarter to KRW9 trillion due to weak memory prices, a decline in sales and higher marketing costs for our finished products and negative currency effects.
Operating margin for the quarter declined to 14.7%. On a year-on-year basis, both operating profit and operating margin increased, backed by improved conditions for the Display and Memory businesses.
I will now briefly review the results of each business unit. In the Memory business, despite solid shipments mainly for mobile and consumer products, our results weakened sequentially due to continued ASP declines, currency headwinds and initial costs associated with ramping up of new fabs.
On a year-on-year basis, however, the results improved, led by demand from mobile segment. For system semiconductor, orders from major global customers continue to rise, but profits declined sequentially, as well as annually due to a weak US dollar.
In Display, earnings grew significantly quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year as utilization rates increased sharply from mobile panels and conditions improved in the large panel market.
The Mobile business saw its profits decline quarter-on-quarter, due to a decline in sales and an increase in marketing costs, but was able to keep its earnings near last year's level, thanks to a continued cost structure improvement. Network improved its performance by responding to domestic 5G expansion and global 4G and 5G expansions.
For the CE division, despite another quarter of solid sales, mainly due to seasonality in developed countries, increased costs weighed on profitability. Regarding currency effects, significant weakness of the US dollar, euro and some emerging currencies against the Korean won had a negative impact, equivalent to approximately KRW1.4 trillion quarter-on-quarter. The effects were felt mostly in the Component business, including Semiconductor and Display as they are highly affected by the strength of the US dollar.
Next, I would like to share our business outlook. In the first quarter, we expect overall profitability to decline due to relative weakness in the Memory and Display businesses, despite strength in the Mobile business, with the early launch of the Galaxy S21 and the release of new volume models.
For Memory, while demand is expected to remain solid for mobile and recover for data centers, our results are likely to weaken due to currency effects and continued costs associated with new fab ramp-ups.
System LSI will increase supply of SOCs, CISs and DDIs for flagship smartphones and the Foundry business will expand mass production of EUV 5-nanometer SOCs and 8-nanometer high-performance computing chips.
For Display, we expect mobile panel earnings to decline considerably quarter-on-quarter, but improve year-on-year due to increased demand for OLED. The large panel business will continue the work to shift its business base to QD technology.
The Mobile business should improve due to strong sales of flagship devices, including the Galaxy S21 and the launch of mass market models. In CE, we expect our solid performance to continue with timely launches of new products and expansion of premium product lineups, even though sales are likely to decline amid weak seasonality.
Now, let's move on to our full year outlook. Global demand is forecast to recover, although uncertainties such as new waves of COVID-19 infections are unlikely to ease. The Component business will focus on accelerating the shift to next-generation node processes, strengthening cost competitiveness and enhancing both product and technology leadership.
For Memory, we expect business conditions to improve in the first half based on continued demand for mobile and server. However, global macro uncertainties, including currency movements, are likely to continue to influence the business environment.
We will enhance cost competitiveness and market leadership by accelerating migration to 1z nano DRAM and sixth generation V-NAND, while also expanding application of EUV technology.
System LSI will actively address the markets for 5G SoCs and high-resolution sensors with differentiated products and foundry will accelerate growth by expanding mass production of the 5-nanometer EUV process in diversifying application areas.
For Display, the mobile panel business will continue to further differentiate our technologies and enhance cost competitiveness, while the large panel business will focus on laying a foundation for the new business via timely development of QD display products.
For our finished products, we will continue to work to improve profitability by further strengthening premium lineups and operational efficiency. The Mobile business will continue to focus on enhancing profitability by expanding smartphone sales and by improving cost structure.
Sales will be boosted by a strengthened flagship lineup, which includes the Galaxy S21 in foldable phones, as well as our 5G models for the mass market. The Network business, we'll continue to strengthen its global 5G business by exploring new business opportunities.
CE will strive to keep growing by expanding its premium lineup, which includes Neo QLED, Micro LED and bespoke products, while also executing marketing expenses efficiently and strengthening online sales.
Now I will address capital expenditures. CapEx in 2020 was approximately KRW38.5 trillion with KRW32.9 trillion allocated to semiconductor and KRW3.9 trillion to display. For the Semiconductor business, CapEx increased significantly year-on-year for both memory and foundry.
Memory investments concentrated on capacity expansions and advanced process migrations to address growing demand. Foundry CapEx focused on capacity expansion and 5-nanometer EUV for which orders are continuously rising. Display investments also increased compared to last year, mainly for QD display capacity and new processes for mobile panels.
Along with enhancing our business competitiveness, we are committed to creating environmental and social value. And I would like to share some of the efforts we made last year to strengthen governance of our sustainability management.
First of all, the corporate sustainability management office formally under the corporate management office has been elevated and renamed, the Corporate Sustainability Center. It is now overseen directly by our CEO, reflecting the goal to strengthen its role as a control center for the company's sustainability management.
In addition, we established sustainability offices in each division to ensure that sustainability is reflected throughout the life cycle of all of our products and services from the planning stage right through to the after-service care.
Furthermore, sustainability council in which key executives formulate the company's overall sustainability management strategies was elevated, it is now led by the CFO increasing the priority of sustainability in the decision-making of our top executives.
Meanwhile, we believe that product innovation is a bedrock of sustainable growth, and our ceaseless efforts to innovate were recognized at CES 2021 as 44 of the 173 awards we received at the event were CES Innovation awards. We'll keep adding to our foundation of sustainability management by continuing to strengthen our response regarding ESG issues, while also enhancing our financial performance.
I will now turn the conference call over to gentlemen from each business unit to present fourth quarter performances and outlooks for their corresponding business segment. Thank you.
Han JinMan
Good morning. This is Han JinMan from memory global sales and marketing office. In the fourth quarter, mobile demand grew considerably building on an upward trend as started in the third quarter, and overall demand was strong backed by demand from data centers and PC. However, our earnings declined due to effects of a weakening dollar and initial costs associated with ramping up new lines.
In the case of DRAM, for mobile, demand was strong because smartphone sales recovered to the level they were one year ago, thanks to launches of new models by major customers and continued upticks in consumer confidence.
For server, purchasing demand increased based on growing investment in data centers by cloud companies, and the trend for demand was solid as customers were finishing up inventory adjustments. Although demand for PCs remained strong, mainly for Chromebooks and gaming notebooks, there were partial disruptions in set bills [ph] due to short supply of some components.
For graphics, demand for graphic cards increased due to the release of new GPUs, while demand for game consoles has also been solid. On top of that, graphics demand was bolstered for mining applications due to a rise in cryptocurrency prices.
We achieved solid shipments because we actively address the continued growth in mobile demand with proactive product mix adjustments and sales of consumer products such as TVs increased due to growth in home entertainment culture.
Next, I'll talk about the NAND market. For mobile, demand has been solid due to an increase in demand centering on Chinese customers since the Huawei sanctions, as well as with growth in content per box. For server, inventory adjustment at major OEMs in the fourth quarter alongside lingering effects of increased purchase by data centers in the first half contributed to somewhat weak demand in the quarter.
For client SSD, sales of low to mid-priced laptops remained strong due to contactless activities such as telecommuting and online education and demand for new game console has also been solid. We achieved a decent result for shipments by actively responding to strong mobile demand and solid client SSD demand.
Next, let me tell you about the outlook for the first quarter of 2021. We expect our profits to weaken compared to the previous quarter due to continued weakness in the dollar and ongoing initial costs associated with ramping up new lines.
For DRAM in mobile, based on the release of numerous new smartphones and the penetration of 5G through low end and mid-range devices, we expect the market to expand in earnest. However, various risks such as currency effects and additional waves of COVID-19 require monitoring.
As for servers, the demand seems to be improving with increased purchasing following inventory adjustment, mainly at data centers and expanded CapEx. For PCs, we expect demand to be solid, as demand for laptops is likely to persist, amid the ongoing need for contactless of activities and demand for desktops which had been shrinking is also projected to recover in certain markets.
In the midst of continued market uncertainties, we will optimize our product mix to actively address demand across all applications, including strong demand for mobile and solid demand from PC and server.
At the same time, we will enhance cost competitiveness and market leadership by expanding our sales portion of 1z NAND DRAM and ensuring timely supply of the product to our customers.
In the case of NAND in the fourth [ph] quarter for mobile, despite the traditionally weak seasonality, demand is likely to be solid, thanks to increasing demand from Chinese customers, in particular, and growing sales of 5G smartphones due to an expansion of 5 infrastructure, mainly in major markets.
For server SSDs, we think customers' inventory adjustment will continue and data centers will show gradual growth in demand due to the base effect of weak demand in the fourth quarter. For client SSDs, we expect demand to stay robust, amid continuing demand - continuing demand for low end to mid-range laptops and rising content per box.
We will actively respond to increasing demand for mobile and from client SSD and strengthen our technology leadership and cost competitiveness by increasing production of 6th-generation V-NAND, which has already been on track.
Next, let's talk about the outlook for 2021. Last year, the onset of the pandemic caused numerous unexpected changes in applications. Smartphone market was hit hardest, but server showed better-than-expected growth in demand in the first half.
PCs, led by laptops were in strong demand throughout the year, influenced by the stay-at-home economy all around the world. This year, business activities that were delayed by COVID-19 are expected to start gathering moment.
We expect mobile demand to be robust, as demand for the set bill from Chinese customers increases and the content per box prices as 5G model expand their presence in low end and mid-range lineups.
We expect server demand to pick up from weakness shown in the second half of last year, thanks to impacts of resumed investment of data centers and effects of new CPUs launched in earnest. In addition, we expect content per box for PCs to continue to rise and demand for TVs to benefit from sporting events that were postponed until 2021.
Considering the demand from overall applications, we expect DRAM market to turn around in the first half of this year. Still the pace of worldwide vaccination efforts and of an economic recovery unclear at this point, amid other uncertainties such as geopolitical risk and a weak dollar.
Hence, we will keep monitoring demand for related fluctuations and maintaining flexibility in our product mix. Moreover, we will continue to strengthen both cost and product competitiveness with 1z nano DRAM and sixth generation V-NAND.
We will also continue cooperating with major global customers and proactively introduce next-generation lineups to the IT industry that include products such as the world's first on 1a nano DRAM with multi-set EUV and SSD implementing seventh-generation V-NAND, which we will fully introduce to the solution-based market in the second half of this year.
Samsung will solidify our position as a trusted partner by continuing to focus on excellence in quality, cost competitiveness and customer relationships. I wish you a year full of health and happiness. Thank you.
Harry Cho
Good morning. This is Harry Cho from System LSI Business Unit. In the fourth quarter of last year, demand for mobile DDI and image sensor products increased occurring to the launch of smartphones by major customers and active expansion strategies of Chinese customers. Earnings, however, declined due to the weak dollar.
Yet, through the release of our first 5-nanometer SoC product, the Exynos 1080, we solidified our foothold to continue leading the market and to expand our customer base.
Let me share our business outlook. In the first quarter, we expect demand to keep rising mainly for mobile associates and related products, as major smartphone makers continue to expand their active sales strategy and launch new 5G smartphones, differentiating with higher resolution cameras and high frame rate displays.
We plan to expand our supply of 5G mobile processors ultra-high pixel image sensors and high frame rate DDIs, in line with launches of new models of flagship and high-end smartphones in Korea and China.
In 2021, overall, there are external uncertainties caused by the factors, including prolonging pandemic, we expect the market to recover, led by increased demand following aggressive expansion strategies and major smartphone manufacturers.
Accordingly, we will expand shipments centered on products with solid demand such as 5G SoCs, high-resolution image sensors and DDIs to achieve double-digit sales growth for the year. Thank you.
Seung Hoon Han
Good morning. This is Seung Han from the Foundry business. In the fourth quarter, we achieved a new high for quarterly sales, once again, led by rising demand for 5G chips and image sensors from major mobile customers and by increased demand for HPC chips.
However, earnings declined due to currency effect caused by weak dollar. Actively, we improved our leading-edge process competitiveness with the timely design completion of second-generation of 5-nano and first generation for nano mobile products.
In addition, we continue to strengthen our ecosystem by maximizing outcomes of collaborations with partners evidenced by our successful hosting of the first online S-A-F-E, Safe 2020 Forum in October last year.
Turning to our outlook in the first quarter, demand is likely to stay strong for all processes from legacy to advance, and we expect supply shortages to persist for the time being.
In response to strong demand for EUV 7-nano and below, we will continue to operate our lines flexibly such as by increasing the portion of the advanced processes. In addition, we are continuing to strive to add to leadership in advanced processes by focusing on the development of first and second-generation of 3-nano processes. On top of that, these processes will result in a significantly decreased carbon footprint, thanks to their improved power efficiency.
In 2021, we expect the overall foundry market to continue growing due to increases in silicon content, driven mainly by acceleration of 5G expansion and strong HPC market growth related to continuation of currently communicating and online learning trends.
We plan to add to our foundation for growth by expanding our portion of lower customers and by diversifying applications in HPC, network and auto through the capacity expansion centered on advanced processes to respond to our customer demand in a timely manner. Thank you.
KwonYoung Choi
Good morning. I'm KwonYoung Choi from the Business Planning department at Samsung Display. In the fourth quarter, the display business recorded its highest earnings, thanks to an ongoing recovery in demand for major products such as smartphone and TV, amid economic rebound in the second half of 2020.
To be more specific, earnings to the - in the Mobile Display business grew sharply quarter-on-quarter, amidst a gradual recovery of a smartphone demand, driven by an increase in utilization to meet surging demand from our major customers.
In the large Display business, losses narrowed quarter-on-quarter, supported by steady demand and rising ASPs of TVs and modular planners, led by the expansion of contactless services.
Next, let me share the outlook for the first quarter of 2021. For the Mobile Display business, we expect earnings to decline quarter-on-quarter due to a decrease in demand from major customers and seasonal variation in demand.
However, utilization is projected to improve year-on-year as the major customers widened the adoption of OLED panel's displays within their product lineups to align with the pace of 5G commercialization.
Meanwhile, the large Display business is preparing to launch QD display products as scheduled, while also continuing to fulfill as the orders for some customers as planned.
Finally, I'll share our outlook for the display market and the display business core strategies for 2021. For the Mobile Display business, we expect demand to rise for OLED display panels for high-end models and OLED penetration to increase in mid-range segments, driven by expansion of 5G smartphone market alongside recovery of smartphone demand. We will further solidify our leadership in OLED market by taking full advantage of our such market conditions.
Moreover, we will further differentiate our proprietary technologies for features such as adaptive refresh rates and lower power consumption to base for uncertainties caused by demand fluctuation under-prolonged impact of the pandemic and also aggressive market entry of competitors.
At the same time, in response to a growing demand in contactless communication and services, we will endeavor to diversify applications within areas such as note PCs, tablets and automotives by employing advantages of OLED, including ultra-thin and narrow bezel.
Also, we'll promote market expansion for foldable displays. In the meantime, we'll also qualify our presence in the display market through innovative form factors such as foldable and slidable displays.
For the large display business, we will develop QD display with its leading techn