Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (OTC:SSNLF) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call April 28, 2021  9:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ben Suh – Investor Relations
Han JinMan – Senior Vice President-Foundry Marketing Team
Shin Dong Ho – Vice President-System LSI Marketing Team
Seung Hoon Han – Senior Vice President-Samsung Foundry
Choi KwonYoung – Senior Vice President-Samsung Display
Kim Sunggu – Vice President-IT and Mobile Business
Song WoonJun – Vice President-Visual Display Business
Conference Call Participants
Nicolas Gaudois – UBS
Soon-hak Lee – Hanwha Investment & Securities
Peter Lee – Citigroup
Claire Kim – Hana Financial Investment
Seung-Gun Kang – KB Securities
Sung kyu Kim – Daiwa Capital Markets
Ben Suh
Good morning. This is Ben Suh from Investor Relations. Thank you for joining our Earnings Call for the First Quarter of 2021. With me representing each of the business units are Mr. Han JinMan, Executive Vice President of the Memory Global Sales and Marketing Office; Mr. Shin Dong Ho, Vice President of the System LSI Marketing Team, Mr. Han JinMan, Senior Vice President of Foundry Marketing Team; Mr. Choi KwonYoung, Senior Vice President of Samsung Display; Mr. Kim Sunggu, Vice President of the IT and Mobile Business; and Mr. Song WoonJun, Vice President of the Visual Display Business. In addition, Mr. Kang TaeGyu from Investor Relations is present on this call as well.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements we will be making today are forward-looking based on the environment as we currently see it. And all such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed in today's discussion.
Before we start the review of our quarterly results, I would like to address the first quarter dividend. Today, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of KRW361 per share for both common and preferred stock. As part of the shareholder return policy covering the three year term from 2021 to 2023 announced in January, the regular dividend will be KRW9.8 trillion for each of the next three years. Accordingly, the total payout for the first quarter to be paid in May is KRW2.45 trillion or one fourth of the 2021 annual total.
With that I would like to present the results for the first quarter. Despite many ongoing challenges, including the effects of COVID-19, we once again achieved solid results. Thanks to the dedication of our employees and support of our customers and partners. Total revenue in the first quarter increased 6.2% quarter-on-quarter to KRW65.4 trillion, a new all-time high for a first quarter. Despite weak seasonality for the display business, strong smartphone sales and PC and mobile LED memory demand drove such results. Compared to the same period last year, revenue increased by 18.2% mainly due to solid sales of finished products, including smartphones, TVs, and digital appliances.
Gross profit grew slightly on a sequential basis to KRW23.9 trillion is a significant increase in contributions from the IM division more than offset declines from the other businesses. Gross margin was 36.5%. SG&A expenses decreased slightly quarter-on-quarter to KRW14.5 trillion with reduced advertising and promotional costs. As a percentage of sales, they declined by around 2 percentage points. Operating profit increased quarter-on-quarter to KRW9.4 trillion, a solid sales of smartphones and improved profitability in the CE division outweighed weak seasonality in display and a decline in semiconductor profitability. On a year-on-year basis both operating profit and operating margins increased backed by strong sales of finished products and an increased utilization rate for mobile OLEDs.
I will now briefly review the results of each business unit. For the semiconductor business, despite solid memory shipments mainly for PC and mobile, profits edge down primarily due to the production disruption at our Austin fab, which was caused by a major power in water outage. NAND price declines and initial costs associated with ramping up new memory fabs also weighed on the results. In display, earnings fell sequentially due to weak seasonality for mobile products. On a year-on-year basis, however, earnings improved significantly led by a higher OLED utilization rates.
In the Mobile business, earnings improved significantly both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year as sales of flagship and mass market smartphone models grew considerably and its contributions of products in the Device Ecosystem lineup such as tablets, PCs and wearables also grew. The network business maintained its solid performance as 5G continues to expand globally.
For the CE Division, profits grew both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year due to continued pent-up demand for digital appliances alongside expanding sales of premium TV products. Regarding currency effects, there was weakness in the U.S. dollar and strengths in the Euro and major emerging currencies against the Korean won. This was positive for our finished product businesses, but the weak dollar was negative for the component business resulting in a net neutral position for the company as a whole.
Next, I would like to share our business outlook. In the second quarter, we expect earnings to grow in the semiconductor business mainly due to improving memory market conditions, but to decline in the IM Division as the new product effects weaken. For memory, strong server demand should lead to improved earnings. In system semiconductor, foundry is already seeing full resumption of manufacturing at the Austin fab, while System LSI is likely to continue to feel some effects of last quarter's disruption in foundry production.
For display, we expect mobile panel sales to decline due to weak seasonality for smartphones and the effects of some component shortages. In Mobile business, revenue and profitability are likely to decrease as flagship new product effects decline. And some components experienced supply issues, but we will work to minimize the impacts of the component issues by actively managing our local SCM capabilities. In the CE Division for TVs, we will focus on bolstering sales of new products such as Neo QLED models and actively capturing demand from sporting events. The digital plans business will strive to grow by expanding Bespoke product sales globally.
Now let's move on to outlook for the second half of the year. For our component businesses, we expect market conditions to improve and we will continue to extend our product and technology leadership. For our finished products businesses, we will focus on strengthening our premium segment leadership in our product lineups. However, global macro risks, including demand uncertainties related to COVID-19, are likely to persist. For memory, we expect the business environment to remain favorable, including positives such as solid demand for server and mobile products.
We will enhance our market leadership by accelerating migration to 15-nanometer DRAM and 6th-generation V-NAND while also expanding application of EUV process in our products. System LSI will work to maximize its supply capabilities by cooperating this foundries at home and abroad and Foundry will expand its supply with full-fledged mass production at Pyeongtaek Line 2. For display, we will continue our efforts to increase adoption of OLED panels while also establishing a foundation for QD display in the large panel business. The mobile business will strive to secure a solid profitability by further popularizing foldable models, expanding our lineup of mass market 5G models and bolstering growth of tablets, PCs, and wearables.
The network business will continue to address demand from growing domestic and global 5G commercialization as it also continues to explore new business opportunities globally. Amid demand uncertainties related to COVID-19, the CE division will work to secure profitability by further expanding sales of premium products, including Neo QLED and ultra-large screen TVs as well as new life digital appliances. Now, I will address capital expenditures. CapEx in the first quarter was KRW9.7 trillion with KRW8.5 trillion allocated to semiconductor and KRW0.7 trillion to display. Memory investments concentrated on capacity expansions and advanced process migrations in Pyeongtaek and Xian to address growing demand. Foundry investments focused on capacity expansions for advanced processes, including for 5-nanometer EUV.
Finally, I would like to share some of our activities aimed at enhancing governance for sustainability management, as well as our key achievements in this area. We continue to strengthen our sustainability management. Our efforts to protect the environment are enabled by a range of activities, which include reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our role in the circular economy. We also strive to create a better society as we engage in activities related to human rights, diversity, digital responsibility, and the education of the future generations.
We achieved our goal of meeting 100% of the energy needs at our operations in the U.S., Europe and China from renewable sources by 2020, a goal we announced in 2018 as part of an effort to increase use of renewable energy. In addition, our commitment to developing energy-efficient products and reducing energy use in our operations was recognized at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2021 ENERGY STAR awards.
Samsung became the first company in nine years to receive the Corporate Commitment Award. We also received our eight Sustained Excellence award, which is the highest honor among the annual awards. In particular, the rare and prestigious Corporate Commitment Award, which was created in 1993 is only given when there is a company without standing leadership in product efficiency and energy management, and Samsung became the first non-U.S. company to receive the award. The Sustained Excellence award is granted to companies that receive ENERGY STAR certification on a high majority of products released in the U.S., which enhances ENERGY STAR’s brand awareness among consumers.
Meanwhile, we are now including sustainability management as part of the evaluation criteria for all business units and executives to better reflect sustainability achievements in performance evaluations and compensation. We believe this will help further our achievements in sustainability management throughout the company. We’ll keep bolstering our sustainability management through continued efforts to strengthen our response on EST issues, while also enhancing our financial performance.
I will now turn the conference call over to the gentleman from each business unit to present first quarter performances and outlooks for their corresponding business segments.
Han JinMan
Good morning. This is Han JinMan from the Memory Global Sales and Marketing Office. Overall demand was decent in the first quarter, backed by strong demand from mobile, and mainly from laptops, from PCs. However, profit slightly decreased due to the initial cost of new line ramp up that is associated with advanced node migration and the downward trend in NAND prices.
DRAM, demand for mobile stay solid, despite weak seasonality. Due to releases of new models by major customers and increased penetration of 5G smartphones, centering on the Chinese market. Demand for PC was partially affected by a shortage of some components, but it remains strong as online-based activities became routine for global consumers, amid continuing effects of COVID-19, followed by an expansion of the one PC per person trend.
Global demand in the first quarter increased moderately quarter-on-quarter and significantly year-on-year as content-per-box rose due to increasing adoption of a new server CPU and demand was solid, mainly from data centers. Demand for consumer products was also strong despite weak seasonality. Due to an increase in 4K high-definition content and growth in TV and set-top box memory content to use streaming services.
Our results beat our big growth guidance. Thanks to our active response to growing mobile demand in the burgeoning 5G market, a rising server demand for data centers, while also benefiting from sales of PC and TV products related to the rise of home entertainment culture.
Now let's talk about the NAND market. Demand for mobile was robust in accordance with strong smartphone sales and along with rising demand in content-per-box, mainly from Chinese customers. Server SSD saw growth in demand compared to the previous quarter, thanks to the base effect of weak demand in the previous quarter as major datacenter companies resumed storage investments.
Demand for client SSD, especially for laptops, also stayed strong as contactless activities such as telecommuting and online education continued. Amid full-fledged migration to 128-layer, sixth generation V-NAND, we exceeded our bid growth guidance by actively addressing the recovery of demand for server SSD and solid demand for mobile and client SSD.
Now moving to the outlook for the second quarter. In the second quarter, we expect our profits to improve significantly backed by strong demand, centering on DRAM across all applications. For DRAM, there is some set build risk for mobile products due to supply issues with some components, but demand is likely to stay robust. Thanks to the expanding 5G market and related growth in content-per-box.
For server, we expect to set build the major OEMs to pick up with the release of a new CPU. And demand from data center companies will continue to be strong, backed by solid demand for cloud. For PCs, centering on laptops demand from PC should stay solid as educational laptops enter peak seasonality and build demand for addressing Back to School is strong.
Amid growing demand for overall applications, we will continue to strengthen our cost competitiveness and market leadership by ramp ups and tiny sales of cutting-edge products, such as 15-nano DRAM. 
Demand in the second quarter in mobile, similar to DRAM, we should keep an eye on the possibility of disruptions and set builds due to component supply issues. But we expect demand to pick up because of growing content-per-box from expanding 5G lineups at major customers.
Demand for server SSD is likely to stay strong due to increase storage demand from customers and a high-capacity trend with the release of a new CPU. We also expect demand to stay solid for client SSD while demand for low-to-mid priced laptops continues to rise, thanks to the influence of back-to-school effects along with the rising penetration of high-capacity products. We will actively address the increase in demand for high-capacity SSD with 8 terabyte or more, which focuses on us, while accelerating migration to the industry's only single-stack based 128-layer sixth generation 512 gigabit V-NAND strengthening technological leadership and cost competitiveness.
Let me present our outlook for the second half of this year. Amid rapidly changing landscape of the memory industry, our R&D and investing constantly aims to meet needs for fast and higher energy efficient products to increase our performance. At the same time, we are enhancing our core capabilities with the responsibility of leading memory company. In the second half of this year, amid accelerating economic recovery due to persisting stimulus programs in numerous countries, we think demand for servers and storage will keep growing because of expanding investment in data centers and high-capacity trend with the release of a new CPU. 
With a launch of new models for major customers and the broad penetration of 5G, which are likely to positively affect both set shipments and content-per-box of smartphones, we think mobile demand will keep rising. Furthermore, we expect demand from PC to remain strong in the second half, backed by continuing demand for upgrades and additional units in households around the world, with a steady increase in PC product content-per-box. However, we need to stay abreast demands uncertainties is caused by global macro issues, such as geopolitical risk and supply risk for some components.
Based on strong, across-the-board demand within DRAM prices will continue their first half trend and keep rising through the second half. For NAND in the second half, due to a controller supply-demand imbalance for solution products. We expect demand for certain applications to exceed supply. So we will focus on staying on in front of changes in the market demand via big data analysis, and by responding actively to IT into infrastructure for data centers and customer demand in areas such as mobile products.
In addition, as mainstream technology, 15-nanometer DRAM, and 128-layer 6th-generation V-NAND will drive our bit growth and cost competitiveness in the second half. And we will continue to strengthen our technology competitiveness by applying EUV on multiple layers of the 14-nanometer DRAM based on our industry-leading technology and by ramping-up the solution products in the second half, adopting double-stack based 176-layer 7th generation V-NAND.
In closing, we recognized and presented importance and responsibilities that are now in the semiconductor industry. Memory in particular has progressively become the most relevant and vital element of our daily lives, as well as in the workplaces. We are now living in a generation that is increasingly emphasizing social and environmental values rather than simply a product features. With our most advanced technology and extraordinary talents, we will proactively contribute to the standardization of next-generation memory and continue to solidify our leading position as a trusted partner in the IT industry. Thank you.
Shin Dong Ho
Good morning. This is Shin Dong Ho from the System LSI Business. In the first quarter, we increased supply of mobile SOCs and image sensors backed by launches of flagship and high-end smartphones by major customers. But earnings remained mostly flat quarter-on-quarter due to impacts of mobile DDI supply issues caused by disrupted foundry production. However, we reinforced our technological leadership by releasing Exynos 2100, our first product to integrate a 5G modem into a premium mobile SoC, as well as a 50-megapixel ISOCELL image sensor with advanced Dual Pixel Pro technology.
Now, let me talk about the outlook of the second quarter. In the second quarter, we expect overall demand for mobile components to weaken due to a seasonal decline in smartphone demand and continuing effects of the disruption of foundry production in the previous quarter. We will focus on achieving targeted results through a flexible product mix adjustment and pricing policies considering the tight global supply of semiconductors.
In the second half of this year, we believe it'll be prudent to prepare for the possibility that the current shortages situation will persist, due to geopolitical factors, such as escalation of US-China tension as well as environmental factors that may affect semiconductor production.
With System LSI, we will maximize our capability to supply chips by strengthening cooperation with the in-house foundry and expanding the use of outsourced foundries. And by implementing flexible pricing policies, we will strive to keep going. Thank you.
Seung Hoon Han
Good morning. This is Seung Han from the Foundry business. In the first quarter, earnings declined due to a disruption of production at Austin fab in the U.S. due to major power and water outage. Positively, we continue our effort to strengthen our technological leadership by starting the development of the second generation three-nano process and completing the development of the 14 and 8-nano RF processes to actively lead the 5G market.
Turning to our outlook. In the second quarter, we fully normalized the production line in Austin, and we will try to improve profitability and sales by flexibly managing our product mix and using pricing strategies to secure future investment resources. In addition, we will prepare to expand supply in the second half of the year through the start of mass production at Pyeongtaek Line 2 and we will reinforce our differentiated high performance heterogeneous integration technology package solutions by completing the development of the 2.5D interposer package and starting development of 5-nano based 3D IC packaging.
In the second half, we expect growth in the foundry market to exceed previous projections due to rising demand from accelerating 5G penetration, a continuation of the work from home trend, resumption of corporate IT investments, and growing demand from customers securing safety stock. We plan to respond to increasing customer demand through active supply expansions centering on advanced processes by a full operation of Pyeongtaek Line 2, but we will strive to secure the basis for future growth by expanding our global customer bases and by diversifying within the applications such as HPC network, automotive and others.
The explosive increase in digital transformation demand is accelerating the rapid growth of the foundry industry to see greater opportunities. We are striving to provide the best service to our customers with advanced technologies, differentiated solutions and strong ecosystems. Furthermore, we will lead semiconductor industry through cooperation with all customers and partners so that the semiconductor industry can grow and develop. Thank you.
Choi KwonYoung
Good morning. I'm KwonYoung Choi from the Business Planning department at Samsung Display. In the first quarter, although the mobile display business posted a declining earnings, quarter-on-quarter due to shortages for some smartphone components and weak seasonality, growing adoption of OLED displays by flagship right to entry-level models is driving growth year-on-year.
For the large display business, a rise in demand triggered by the expansion of contactless services and increasing VOD viewing hours led to positive changes in market factors, such as increase in ASP. However, earnings declined quarter-on-quarter as we continue to convert our manufacturing lines to in preparation for the next-generation TV market.
Next, let me share the outlook for the second quarter, the mobile display business, it'll likely to see a slow down in quarter-on-quarter growth affected by the prolonged impact of the weak seasonality and component shortage in the first quarter. And latent demand for the new smartphone model is scheduled for release in the third quarter. However, we are determined to raise our utilization rate and secure profitability to securing key display components and further collaborating with our customers. Our large display will continue to pave the way for a smooth transition to new business model based on 2D display technology.
Next, let me turn to our outlook for the display market and our core strategies for the second half of 2021. We expect the smartphones market to continue to recover in the second half thanks to rising 5G smartphone demand and economic recoveries. We at Samsung Display will strive to secure panel components and fulfill all orders for customers’ new product launches scheduled in the second half of this year.
We'll also work to ensure a stable supply of products via timely development of new technologies. In particular, we'll strive to increase OLED market share in the mobile display market by diversifying within new application areas that are expected to grow post-COVID, including IT devices, such as tablets, laptops and foldable phones, as well as automotives. We’ll work to ensure OLED becomes the standard in the premium displays. For the large display business, we’ll channel our efforts through – toward preparing for the successful mass production of 2D display our next generation panel technology so that it can set a new standard in the premium TV and monitor markets. Thank you for listening.
Kim Sunggu
Good morning. This is Sunggu Kim from the Mobile Communications business. I like to discuss IM division’s Q1 results and outlook. In Q1 2021, market demand is expected to have decreased on quarter-on-quarter basis due to seasonality, but have recovered on year-on-year basis from Q1 2020 when the market was significantly impacted by COVID-19. As for our mobile business, flagship smartphone sales increased QoQ as the Galaxy S21, which we launched in January has been well received by the customers. Meanwhile, the Galaxy A series equipped with innovations and price competitiveness continued its solid sales performance.
In addition, we have long been striving to enhance connected, convenient and rich experiences across our device ecosystem. And such efforts are leading to material growth in contribution from our tablet, PC and wearable businesses. Thanks to the above mentioned factors, our revenue and profits saw anterior growth QoQ. For our network business, search increased compared to the previous quarter, led mainly by those in North America and Japan and we maintained robust profitability.
Now let me move on to Q2 outlook. Market is expected to decrease QoQ due to component supply shortage issue amid continuing seasonally weak demand. As for our mobile business, we expect sales to ramp up for A72 and A52, which we unpacked our first four A series models and also our new notebook PC Galaxy Book, which we unpacked just yesterday. In addition, we expect robust sales of tablets and wearables to continue.
On the other hand, we expect partial decrease in new flagship launching effect and component supply shortage, which are likely to lead revenue to decrease QoQ. However, we are trying to minimize the impact of supply shortage and secure robust profitability by rebalancing supply via our global SCM capabilities. For the network business, we will continue responding to 5G equipment expansion in Korea and network rollouts in global markets, including North America and Southwest Asia.
Now, let me move on to the second half and annual outlook. We expect market demand to recover to a pre-COVID level on annual basis or meet a gradual economic recovery and full-fledged expansion of 5G market. As for our mobile business, we will strengthen our leadership in the premium segment by continuing sales momentum of Galaxy S series and by popularizing the affordable category, which includes Z Fold and Z Flip. At the same time, we will strive to maximize sales of the new competitive mass market 5G models and to further grow our tablet, PC and wearable businesses. Through these efforts, we will try to achieve solid profits.
In addition, we will continue our efforts to further strengthen the Galaxy ecosystem to provide more valuable and richer experiences to our customers by not only enhancing our own services, but also by collaborating more closely with the global leading partners. For the network business, we will remain active in 5G commercialization globally and continue to seek new business opportunities. Thank you.
Song WoonJun
Good morning. I'm Song WoonJun from sales and marketing team of Visual Display. First, I'd like to review the market conditions and our performance in the first quarter in 2021. The TV market in first quarter contract here to quarter-on-quarter after a year-on-year in peak season, but expanded year-on-year due to a strong demand in advanced markets. Samsung proactively address strong demand using our global SCM capabilities and we expanded sales and improved our profits year-on-year by prioritizing high value added products such as QLED, super large screen TV and lifestyle TVs.
In particular, newly launched Neo QLED have garnered positive feedback from both consumers and our channel partners in every aspect, such as picture quality, sound and usability. And it has been showing strong sales at early stage. Our digital appliances in first quarter amid on continuing release of pent up demand, consumer needs for home appliances are becoming more diversified as the people spent more time at home and become more interested in home decor.
We achieved revenue growth, not only in advanced markets, but also in emerging markets, such as Southwest Asia and Latin America. By expanding sales of premium products, including customizable bespoke products that can meet the diverse needs of consumers. Also profitability improved as we focused on our operational efficiency based on modular concept.
Now let's look – let's us look at our outlook for second quarter in the second half of 2021. We expect TV demand in second quarter to increase year-on-year due to major sporting events, such as a Europe Cup and Olympics that were postponed last year. However, there are still market uncertainties as a several countries have a resume lockdown policies following additional waves of COVID-19. As I mentioned before, we will expand the sales of new models, which are receiving positive review in the market and implement promotions of our high picture quality products and super larger TV – super larger screen TVs to proactively target the ongoing rise in demand for home cinema and home entertainment, as well as demand inducing by sports events.
Along with Neo QLED, which deliver the best viewing experience offering ultra slim design and AI based the sound with the industry’s highest contrast and black detail. We will further strengthen our leadership with successful launch of Micro LED for home. For digital appliances in second quarter, although market demand is expected to increase year-on-year, business condition may face risks such as a rising material and logistics costs. We will provide a new experience in home appliances and expand the ecosystem through Bespoke Home, which was introduced in the Korean market in first quarter.
For the global market with client expand the launch of Bespoke to new region in phases, which will consolidate our unique identity. For air conditioners, as six years a