Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (OTC:SSNLF)  Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call October 27, 2021  9:00 PM ET
Company Participants
Ben Suh – Investor Relations
Han Jin Man – Memory Global Sales and Marketing Office
Choi Young Kwon – System LSI
Shawn Han – Foundry
Kwon Young Choi – Samsung Display
Kim Dongwon – IT and Mobile
Song Won-Jun – Visual Display
Harry Cho – System LSI
Sung Koo Kim – Mobile Communications Business
Song Won Jun – Sales and Marketing Team of Visual Display
Unidentified Company Representative – Unidentified
Unidentified Analyst – Unidentified
Conference Call Participants
Soonhak Lee – Hanwha Investment & Securities
Peter Lee – Citigroup
Ricky So – HSBC
SK Kim – [Indiscernible] markets
Kim Dongwon – KB Securities
Nicolas Gaudois – [Indiscernible]
Wonsik Lee – Korea Investment and Securities
Unidentified Company Representative – Unidentified
Unidentified Analyst – Unidentified
Operator
Good morning and good evening. Thank you all for joining this conference call. And now we will begin the conference on our fiscal year 2021, Third Quarter Earnings [Indiscernible] by Samsung Electronics. This conference will start with a presentation followed by a dividend of Q and A session. [Operator instructions]. Now we share common stock presentation on the fiscal year 2021, Third Quarter Earnings reserves by Samsung Electronics.
Ben Suh
Welcome everyone. This is Ben Suh from Investor Relations. Thank you for joining our Third Quarter 2021 earnings call. For additional details regarding our quarterly results, please refer to our earnings presentation, which is available on our IR website at www. Samsung. com/Global/IR. 
On the call with me today representing each of the business units are; EVP Han Jin Man representing Memory, VP Choi Young Kwon for system LSI SVP Han Shawn Loon, for Foundry, SVP Choi Kwon Young for Samsung Display. VP Kim Dongwon for IT and Mobile. And VP Song Won-Jun for Visual display. In addition, VP [Indiscernible] from Investor Relations is present on this call as well. 
I would like to remind you that some of the statements we will be making today are forward-looking based on the environment as we currently see it. And all such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed in today's discussion. 
Before we present our quarterly results, let me first address the third quarter dividend. Today, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of 361.11 per share for both common and preferred stock. 
The total payout for the third quarter is the same as it was for the first second quarters, which is W2.451 trillion or 0.5 of the 2021 annual totals of W9.8 trillion in accordance with the shareholder return policy we announced in January. The dividend will be paid in mid-November. Now, I would like to present the results for the third quarter. 
Despite numerous macro uncertainties in the third quarter, such as global supply chain issues and persistent effects of COVID-19, by actively leveraging our leading technology, outstanding product competitiveness, and differentiated global SCM capabilities. We once again delivered record results. Total revenue for the quarter was W74 trillion, up 16.2% sequentially. 
With all of our major businesses seeing revenue growth, highlighted by solid sales of foldables and other smartphones, as well as increases in both memory shipments and OLED sales. We have set new records for total revenue in a respective quarter for 3 quarters in a row, and we expect that annual revenue will be well above the previous all-time mark set in 2018. 
Compared to last year's results, which was our previous all-time high for any quarter, revenue grew 10.5% driven mainly by memory and OLED. Gross profit increased by W4.51 trillion sequentially to W31.11 trillion on the back of cost reductions in memory, mainly from advanced process migrations. 
The result saw a slight rise in gross margin. SG &A expenses came in at W15.31 trillion of W1.21 trillion quarter-on-quarter, primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional costs. The percentage of sales, however, they declined by 1.4 percentage points as sales significantly outgrew the SG &A increase. 
Operating profit increased by W3.31 trillion quarter-on-quarter to W15.8 trillion, our second highest total ever, as a component business improved significantly backed by continued favorable conditions in the memory market and robust sales in the foundry and DP businesses. Our finished product businesses also delivered solid results. Operating margin improved by 1.6% points. 
On a year-on-year basis, both operating profit and operating margin increased substantially, propelled by our component businesses. I will now briefly review the results of each business unit. For memory, results improved significantly as we actively addressed customer demand, which led to record quarterly bid shipments, as well as the second highest ever revenue for DRAM. 
Also, costs were reduced by expanding sales of 15-nanometer DRAM and a 128 V-NAND. In Foundry, results improved backed by strong demand from our global customers. In display, mobile panel earnings improved sequentially on effects of product launches by major smartphone customers. 
However, the large panel business continued to post losses, mainly due to declines in LCD ESP. For the mobile business, results improved sequentially thanks to the expanded sales of our new foldable models and low-to-mid range smartphones, along with sales growth of products in the device ecosystem lineup. 
In network, we expanded our business overseas, including in North America, in Japan, as we continue to address 5G network demand in the domestic market as well. In CE division, despite a strong expansion of our premium TV and bespoke lineups, profitability declined due to rising material and logistics costs. 
Regarding currency effects, strengths in most major currencies against the Korean Won, especially the U.S. dollar, had a positive effect on the component business in particular, with a combined impact of approximately W800 billion on our operating profit compared to the previous quarter. 
Next, I would like to share our business outlook. In the fourth quarter, we will focus on actively meeting demand for memory and systems semiconductors, although, component shortages at some customers may have an effect. 
We will also maintain solid profitability in our finished product businesses by strengthening our leadership and lineups in the premium segment. For memory, there may be increased demand risks due to longer-than-expected components of high issues. But we will actively address strong fundamental demand for servers resulting from increased investments by major IT companies. 
For system semiconductors. We expect to increase supply of SOC and related products for mobile phones slated for launch in 2022. And for Foundry, we expect results to improve considerably as we aggressively address demand for advanced processes. 
For display, we expect the mobile panel business to achieve solid results backed by steady demand for smartphones and expanded sales in new applications. The large panel business, we are on track to begin mass production of QD display as planned. We expect losses to continue due to price declines in LCD panels. 
The mobile business we aim to secure robust profitability by expanding sales of premium products such as foldables, actively targeting replacement demand with expanded sales of low to mid-range 5G smartphones, and increasing sales of tablets and wearables. 
The CE division. We will endeavor to expand sales with a focus on promotion of premium products made seasonally strong year-end demand. Now, let's move on to our outlook for 2022. Amid anticipation that Global IT demand will recover, the component business will focus on expanding the advanced node portion of production and enhancing our leadership in next-generation products and technology. 
In the finished product business, we'll prioritize achieving solid profitability by continuing to strengthen our leadership in line ups in the premium segment. However, there are likely to be uncertainties related to components supply disruptions, and living with COVID-19 transition, as more people are vaccinated. 
For the memory business we will strive to boost cost competitiveness with volume production of 14 -nanometer DRAM. and seventh-generation V-NAND and also enhanced market leadership by expanding mass production of next-generation products based on our industry-leading EUV technology. System LSI will expand its business by reinforcing its lineup of SOC s, including for models in the volume zone. 
And we expect Foundry to continue to deliver a strong improvement in results by addressing growing customer demand through active investments and by technology leadership, such as bringing to production the industry's first 3-nanometer gate-all-around process. 
For Display, the mobile panel business, we expect OLED portion of the market to increase with the rising penetration of 5-key amid a recovery of smartphone demand. And we will closely monitor the supply of some components, such DDIs. 
Large panel business will strive to secure a position in the premium TV segment is QD display. The mobile business will pursue sales growth and profitability improvements by strengthening its presence in the premium market, with expanded sales of our flagship lineup, including our increasingly popular foldables, as well an enhanced lineup of 5G smartphones for the mass market. 
At the same time, we'll keep fostering the tablet and wearable businesses, while also continue to develop industry-leading technologies. For network, we will continue to enhance our hardware with custom 5G chips and strengthen software-based virtualization solutions for future growth. And we will also pursue continued expansion overseas. Per se, overall demand is likely to soften as the world transitions to living with COVID-19. 
But we will focus on proactively capturing growing demand from premium TVs and increasing global sales of bespoke products. Let me now move on to capital expenditures. Capex in the third quarter was W10.21 trillion, with W9.11 trillion invested in semiconductor, and W0.71 trillion in display. The cumulative total as of the end of the Third Quarter is W33.51 trillion with W30 trillion in semiconductor and W2.11 trillion in display. 
Looking at each business up to the end of the Third Quarter, memory concentrated, its investments on expected '22 demand growth and readiness for next-gen products such as DDR5, with capacity expansions and process migrations in our factory in ComTech in Xi'an. And it also invested in longer-term readiness, such as infrastructure and P3. For Foundry investments focused on capacity expansion for advanced UV notes in Comtech. 
Display investments centered on accelerating the transition to new technology, to expanding capacity for QD display, as well as mobile modules. We're maintaining our policy to invest flexibly in line with market conditions and given growing uncertainties, including those over component supply, we're carefully reviewing fourth quarter CapEx. 
And as such, we will not be providing a forecast for annual CapEx for 2021 at this earnings call. Finally, I would like to share some of our key activities and achievements in sustainability management. On October 20th, the leading brand consultant, Interbrand, announced this list of the 100 Best Global Brands, and our Company ranked fifth for the second consecutive year. 
Our brand was valued at $74.6 billion, a 20% increase compared to last year. We ranked the highest and saw the biggest growth among non-U.S. companies, and we also far surpassed the list average growth rate. 
Our reorganization to a customer centric management system, sustainability activities, and releases of innovative products were highly valued as we reaffirmed our position as a global Top 5 brands. On October 12th, Forbes released its annual list of the world's best employers and our Company took the top position for a second consecutive year. 
We believe this achievement recognizes our numerous positives including the Company's prioritization of employee's health and safety in a COVID-19 response, outstanding performance, strengthened DSG activities, healthy corporate culture, and professional development opportunities. In August, we unveiled Galaxy for the planet. The Mobile business' sustainability vision for the Galaxy ecosystem. 
The Vision outlines instead of initial goals that we aim to reach by 2025, including incorporating recycled materials into all of our new Galaxy products, and also achieving 0 waste to landfill in our mobile worksites around the world. Galaxy for Planet is a continuation of our efforts to create a sustainable future across the lifespan of our products, from production to usage, to disposal. As well as throughout our overall business operations to tackle climate change. 
Moreover, we aim to spearhead to transition to a circular economy through the reuse and recycling of resources. In August of 2021, the Ministry of Environment gave us incorporating company’s final approval for a new process to be defined as recycling technology under domestic law. This new technology involves the reuse of wastewater sludge generated during the semiconductor manufacturing to produce supplementary material in the steel-making process. 
Cooperative efforts between Samsung, Hyundai Steel, and Pos Ceramics began in August 2020 with the signing of a technology agreement and resulted in the successful production of steel in April 2021, Hyundai Steel's Dangjin site, by using 30 tons of fluorite alternative products. This new technology was approved after it was reviewed by the National Institute of Environmental Research. And because the technology enables replacing a mineral, it cannot be sourced domestically. 
It is recognized as the most exemplary case of ESG commitment towards resource circulation. since the Ministry of Environment established its Recycling Environmental Assessment System in 2016. In September, Samsung received product carbon footprint labels certification for four of our new flagship system LSI products. Joining previously certified memory chips from the UK's carbon trust. We now have certifications for 14 semiconductor products. 
Semiconductor manufacturing has a particularly challenging road to Certification due to its numerous complex processes and need for large quantities of various types of raw materials. However, we pass the strict international assessment standards. 
Backed by results of our various efforts to reduce carbon emissions. We will continue to strive to minimize carbon emissions with initiatives such as reducing the amount of gas required in our semiconductor manufacturing process, enhancing the efficiency of greenhouse gas treatment equipment, and applying solutions to reduce energy consumption throughout the manufacturing process. 
I will now turn the Conference Call over to gentlemen from each business unit to present Third Quarter performances and outlooks for their corresponding business segments. We will start with the memory business. Thank you.
Han Jin Man 
Good morning. This is Han Jin Man from the Memory Global sales and marketing office. Third Quarter, the prices reach remained favorable, in demand centering on software stayed strong. We improved our performance significantly, compared to the previous quarter by actively addressing customer demand and reducing costs, by expanding the portion of production using cutting-edge processes. 
In the case of DRAM for solar, demand continued to grow and as adoption of a new high core CPU that was released in the first half of the year, expanded. Demand from set sales stays solid. The content per box increase. 
For mobile, despite effects on set bills related to supply issues of some components such as application processors, a demand recovery has become more visible thanks to releases of new products by major manufacturers at the base effect of the second quarter, which was affected by somewhat weak demand. For PCs, demand from end-users has also been robust due to changes such as workplaces, opting for hybrid work patterns alongside strong seasonal effects. 
However, due growth has been limited by supply constraints and logistics issues for some components. In graphics, memory demand expanded on a rise in demand for Grafix cars due to a revitalization of crypto mining. And the continuing strong demand from game console, which is in peak-season. 
Despite a resurgence of COVID-19 in major production countries and component supply issues that led to disruptions in set builds along with weakening demand from customer PCs, we actively responded to demand by flexibly operating our plan mix. We set a new record for quarterly DRAM shipments and in particular by significant growth in server sales. 
And we met our original guidance, not to mention the enhancement we made to cost competitiveness by increasing the 15 nano portion of production. Next, I will talk about the end-market. For some SSDs, along with increased investments by major several customers, enterprise demand recovered. 
And based on the high capacity trends, spurred by new CPU adoptions, demand was strong from data centers for high capacity products. In the case of mobile, demand has been solid due to the launch of new models and increases in content per box by major customers as we enter strong seasonality. 
For client SSDs and demand was strong due to our resumption of office work. But memory demand was weak, due to a disruption in that field caused by component supply issues, and inventory adjustments by some customers. 
In response to growing demand for sub SSDs, we expanded sales of high capacity products of 8 terabyte and above. And increased our production portion of 128-layer products, which led to another quarter of growth. Next, let me tell you about our fourth quarter outlook. 
In the case of DRAM, we expect fundamental demand for Silva to stray strong thanks to the new CPU adoption and expansion of data center investments. However, we need to keep monitoring impacts of the longer-than-expected component supply issues on set build. 
For mobile manufacturer is likely to continue to launch new 5G models for there are chances that growth of purchasing demand could be limited due to inventory adjustment of some customers, along with impacts of supply chain issues, for PCs, we expect said Bill growth to stay similar compared to the last quarter. Given the ongoing uncertainties over the supply of some components, the impacts a weakening demand from consumer tree. 
We will actively address fundamental demand from major server customers and aim for full-fledged sales to PCs, adopting new CPU, and lead the formation of a market ecosystem that is based on mass production of DDR5 for high-end gaming. In addition, we will continue to strengthen our cost competitiveness by maximizing the portion of production using cutting-edge technologies such as 50 nano plus. 
In case of NAND or Server SSD as business activities normalized alongside increasing vaccination rates and continued growth in enterprise IT budgets, we expect the high capacity trends for Server SSDs to continue and demand to be robust. However, we should keep an eye on the components of lights. For mobile, demand is likely to be solid based on 5G market expansions and high capacity trends is to spend up new models. 
We also need to monitor impacts of supply chain disruptions on the [indiscernible] In the PC markets, more and more companies are expected to resume office work in the second half, so we expect replacement demand for enterprise PCs to pick up. 
The demand for memory purchases may slow slightly due to the impact of inventory adjustments at some customers. We will secure a stable supply chain based on our strong SCM management system and maintain our differentiation of strategy by continuously expanding our portion of high-value products, while actively responding to overall server demand, and also expanding our lineup of mobile products. Now let's move on to the outlook for next year. 
First, considering macro uncertainties, adjust the timing of mitigating component supply issues, influences of living with COVID policies amid increasing vaccination rates and raw material pricing issues, we ask for your understanding in the -- it is difficult to provide specific prospect or guidance. Therefore, I'd like to provide a rough outline of the market based on our present forecasts. 
Although the mentioned uncertainties may impact demand in the memory market next year, the pandemic led -- global consumers to experience more online-based social activities and lifestyle which has been called a new normal. We think most of the demand s in the new normal will persist as a part of our lives. 
For server and PCs and those whole shifts, we expect fundamental demand to be robust, with the trend towards high capacity, following the expanding new CPU adoption and continued growth of enterprise IT investment. For mobile, we expect shipment growth in high capacity trends to continue with the increase in low to mid-priced 5G models, and also as manufacturers launched products with new form factors. 
However, since almost all applications are feeling effects of the longer than expected component supply issue. The timing of resolving such issues is the key to increasing visibility of fundamental demand in each application. Furthermore, we expect demand for consumer and [Indiscernible] segment also to be robust. 
As the Beijing Winter Olympics have potential to support increased penetration of premium TVs and the move to high capacity. While demand is likely to be strong for PGA in high end PCs, for AI accelerators in the HB market. As we continue to expand the portion 15-nanometer DRAM and 120 layers Venal based on preemptive product mix management, it is aligned with market situation. 
We will gradually address the server markets where demand is likely to grow, thanks to new adoptions of DDR5 with rising penetration of a high core CPU, and we will also preemptively secure demand for NAND solution products. 
Moreover, while expanding mass production of 14-nanometer DRAM - nano DRAM in 176 layers of demand, we will continue to strengthen our market competitiveness based on stable cost reductions through next-generation processes and products. Thank you.
Harry Cho 
Good morning. This is A - Harry Cho from the System LSI [Indiscernible] In the third quarter, earnings improved due to increased demand for SOCs and DDIs as the major mobile customers launch new products. In particular, the strong demand of DDIs amid continued the shared supply, contributed greatly to earnings improvements via efficient execution of pricing strategies. 
We affirmed our leadership in mobile image sensor market by introducing ISO sell ATP one, the industry's produced 200-megapixel energy sensor and 50-megapixel license GEN5 the industry's smallest dual-pixel image sensor, featuring faster and more accurate auto focus. 
Now, let me talk about the outlook of fourth quarter. In fourth quarter we expect earnings to continue to increase due to our higher mass production of mobile associated related products for launches of new 5G smartphone product in 2022 by major smartphone companies. 
The Company aims to achieve even higher double-digit annual sales growth by maximizing its chip supply capabilities via strengthening Foundry cooperation and flexibly adjusting product mix. In 2022, we plan to improve our performance through meaningful gains in the SoC business, such as by expanding supply of [indiscernible] models, for the [indiscernible] is always put a new latest model that feature enhanced CPU performance. Thank you.
Shawn Han 
Good morning. This is A - Shawn Han from the Foundry beginning. In the third quarter, we improved our earning sequentially and set a new record high for third quarter as we significantly increased supply of key products such as advanced process SoCs and GPU s to our global customers with the expansion of mass production at comtech as Fiber Line. 
In addition, we secured a stable sales base by winning new orders for advanced processes from global customers and we continue our technological leadership by completing the development of the first-generation of GAA, gate auto rolling process, design infrastructure for OLED mass production of 3-nano in 2022. In the fourth quarter, the demand for advanced and mature processes are likely to stay strong. 
And we expect to set new records for reserves by maximizing supply with revenue growing by more than 10% On top of that, the Company plans to continue its technological leadership by completing design of first-generation GAA, 3-nano products and developing second-generation GAA process, design infrastructure for 3-nano. 
In the Foundry market in 2022, we expect supply to remain tight due to increase silicon consumption for 5G mobile, solate GPU center demand for HPC, strong CPU demand due to intensifying competition, and solid demand for 8-inch legacy products and consumer applications. 
We aim to continue to grow by actively investing to expand supply for advanced processes of 5 NANO and below. And we also plan to pursue correlative growth by expanding global customers sales, and no more rising prices for sustainable future investments. Thank you.
Kwon Young Choi
Good morning. I'm Choi Kwon Young from the Business Planning team at Samsung Display. In the third quarter, the Mobile Display business recorded a sequential growth in sales and profit and the smartphone sales remained brisk, owing to launches of new flagship phones by major customers. 
In particular, our profitability improved with the sales of expansion of high-end products, such as affordable points, leading us to achieve our highest ever third quarter profit. Meanwhile, the larger display business has been affected by dependent price declines. 
And it's a loss increased to some extent, quarter-on-quarter. However, the loss narrowed year-on-year as restarted, facing out sales [Indiscernible] [Indiscernible] from this year, in line with the tradition of production lines to be displayed. 
Next, let me share our outlook for the fourth quarter. For the Mobile Display business, we expect the demand for beta customers, new products to stay solid. And at the same time, series of laptops and gaming devices will co-emit effects of peak seasonality. 
As a result, we expect the Mobile Business -- Display Business to achieve solid revenue and profits in the fourth quarter. For the larger display business, given our plan to start mass production and supply of QD products, we will kind of all our efforts to ensure the successful debut of our HQ display. Finally, I will share -- I'll look for the display market in display business, the core strategies for 2022. 
For the Mobile Display business. we expect the environment for the OLED business to remain favorable, fueled by a recovery in smartphones demand. Thanks to an accelerating return to daily lives and wider availability of 5G networks. Moreover, we expect sales of already penance in applications other than smartphones, including laptops and tablets, and just start in earnest.
Kwon Young Choi
In. 2022. We at Samsung Display will do our best to capitalize on such trends as new growth engines. However, there are still concerns stemming from a supply crunch of components such as DDIs. 
So, we'll totally monitor supply chain and take preemptive measures against the potential risks in order to provide products to our customers as scheduled. For the larger display business, we'll complete the reorganization of our business from HD to QD display as planned, and focus on securing leadership in the premium TVs segments with QD display. Thank you for listening.
Sung Koo Kim 
Good morning. This is Sung-Koo Kim from the mobile communications business. I would like to discuss the IM divisions Q3 results, and the outlook for Q4 in 2022. In Q3, 2021, market demand is expected to have increased quarter-on-quarter due to elevating influences of COVID-19. 
Our mobile business, revenue increased compared to the previous quarter despite supply constraints in the overall industry. [Indiscernible] have increased quarter-on-quarter, led by strong sales of the Fold3 and the Flip3, which are being very well received in the market with their distinct experiences, including sophisticated designs on the display camera [Indiscernible] and [Indiscernible] resistance, to name a few. 
As of our enhanced mass-market line up also contributed to the performance. In addition, device ecosystem products such as wearables have contributed to strong growth. We maintained all solid double-digit operating profit margin. Why? Increased marketing investments aimed at mainstreaming the foldable category has some effect on profitability. 
For the network business, we have enhanced our foundation for growth in 5G by expanding our business overseas, including in North America and Japan, and by actively responding to domestic demand for 5G network deployments. Now let me move on to the Q4 outlook. These tech market demand to increase quarter-on-quarter as a result of original year-end seasonality although uncertainties over component supply constraints are likely to linger. 
In our mobile business to continue to strive to further expense premium smartphone sales with BeSpoke edition to focus customer's aspirations on our affordable C Series, while also maintaining sales momentum of GalaxyS series. At same time, we will collectively target replacement demand and the growing five-year markets with our competitive 5G lineup for the mass market. 
In addition, we were increased series of device ecosystem system products, including wearables, PCs [Indiscernible] by promoting easier, more convenient, connected experience. By doing so, we expect to maintain double-digit operating margin. For the Networks Business, where you're push for business grows in global markets like North America and Southwest Asia. Now let me share our outlook for the next year. 
Although risk of continuing COVID-19 is likely to proceed, we expect the smartphone market to continue its growth and the market for the wearable devices, which provide consumers with new experiences in their values to maintain gross in the double-digits. For the mobile business, we will strive to strengthen our leadership in the premium market by furthering and seeing product attractiveness and differentiate the experiences of our flagship products. 
As for our full Double Z-Series, we'll continue to further the distinct competitive advantage based on our unmatched innovative technologies and outstanding user experiences. And also provide Samsung 's unique differentiation, such as BeSpoke addition. We will drive mainstreaming of the foldable category and establish it as a very important category within premium market. 
Regarding our mass market smartphones, we will continue to extend convenient and unique premium experiences and also actively address diverse regional demand. Rate of team might products such as mass-market 5G smartphones. 
Fu