Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY) Q2 2021 Earnings Conference Call August 18, 2021  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Wendy Huang - Investor Relations
Pony Ma - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Martin Lau - President
James Mitchell - Chief Strategy Officer
John Lo - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Alicia Yap - Citigroup
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley
Robin Zhu - Bernstein
John Choi - Daiwa Capital Markets
Alex Yao - JPMorgan
Garret Wang - CITIC Securities
William Packer - BNP Paribas
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Thomas Chong - Jefferies
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Tencent Holdings Limited 2021 Second Quarter Results Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Ms. Wendy Huang from the Tencent IR Team. Thank you. Please go ahead.
Wendy Huang
Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Welcome to our 2021 second quarter results conference call.
Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements, which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent. This presentation also contains some unaudited non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures of the company's financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosure documents on the IR section of our website.
Now, let me introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick off with a short overview; President, Martin Lau, will discuss strategy review; Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will speak to business review; and the Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial discussion before we open the floor for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma
Thank you, Wendy. Good evening. Thanks, everyone, for joining us. In the second quarter, we enhanced our services and achieved healthy growth across our businesses, particularly Business Services and advertising, while our game revenue benefited from international growth.
Now, let me go through the headline number -- financial numbers for the quarter. Total revenue was RMB138 billion, up 20% year-on-year and 2% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB63 billion, up 18% year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS operating profit was RMB43 billion, up 14% year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB34 billion, up 13% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter. For our key services, we generally retain our first place position in activities, including social games, long-form video, music, literature, payment, and mobile utilities. And we believe we gained market share in cloud services. Combined MAU of Weixin and WeChat was 1.25 billion. Mobile devices MAU of QQ was 591 million. Martin and James will discuss our strategy to help view economy and society as well as focus across different businesses.
Now, I will hand over to Martin for the strategic review.
Martin Lau
Thank you, Pony, and good evening and good morning to everybody.
Today, I would like to share with you the encouraging progress of our communication and productivity SaaS products, which are generating user and social value despite contributing very little revenue to us for now. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, we have seen accelerated demand for digitization across industries. Our communication and productivity SaaS product suite, namely WeCom, Tencent Meeting, and Tencent Docs, assisted this digitization process and contribute to the growth of the economy. We'll keep this by leveraging a number of our capabilities developed over the years: First, our advanced technologies and domains such as AI, real-time communications, and security; second, our proven experience in operating large-scale Internet services with robust performance and reliability; third, our ubiquitous coverage and deep engagement with consumers via Weixin and QQ, which facilitates industries building direct connection with their users; and fourth, our vertical solutions for providing business services, including cloud services to key industries through our own product innovation and partnerships.
By helping industries digitize, we believe we deliver critical benefits to different stakeholders. For SMEs, we have significantly lowered the barrier for technology adoption. They can leverage our products to increase customer engagement themselves as well as to enhance cost efficiency without making significant IT investments on their own. For public services, when they enable real-time and direct connection with citizens and enterprises, we also facilitate productivity enhancements through improving their workflows and increasing their collaboration efficiency. For individual users, we help reduce their traveling burden and enhance convenience. We also enable instant access to and sharing of vital information.
Going through the different products; WeCom enabled better connections within enterprises and with consumers externally. WeCom offers collaboration tools for enterprises to enhance management efficiency. It is deeply integrated with Weixin chats, Mini Programs, and Weixin Payments. Enterprises can use WeCom as a back end to communicate with and serve customers on Weixin, enabling convenient and efficient customer management on one single platform. All customer relationship will be retained by enterprises and will be preserved even after the frontline staff's departure. Examples of how we can assist digitization include, for the government, we can support the Seventh National Population Census, the first digitized census in China's history. WeCom enabled around 7 million census tickers to submit a massive amount of data online in a secured and reliable way, and facilitated the efficient management and coordination of this large and mobile workforce.
In the public education sector; WeCom has been increasingly adopted as a software for enhancing communications and operations management of schools. WeCom enables real-time and direct communications between teachers and parents, where teachers can benefit from WeCom's CRM functionality, while parents can interact with teachers using the parent's own regular Weixin accounts and app. WeCom also provide tools for education bureaus and schools to manage their day-to-day operations more efficiently. In the business sector; we have been upgrading tools in WeCom to enhance the private domain operations of retailers and brands as we improve their resources management. We believe these tools can help retailers and brands increase sales and improve cost efficiency.
Now, turning to Tencent Meeting; the most used stand-alone cloud conferencing app in China. Tencent Meeting has achieved double-digit growth in both MAU and time spent per user in June 2021 compared with December 2020. We're increasing it's penetration in medical and public education sectors, leveraging our vertical solutions, and expanding industry partnerships. To enrich our solutions for meeting rooms, Tencent Meeting supports a wide range of hardware from around 30 partner vendors. We upgraded the growth quality by launching our self-developed voice solution, Tencent's Ethereal Audio. With enhanced AI-based noise cancellation, our solution enables speech capture from up to 12 meters away in standard meeting rooms. Examples of how Tencent Meetings assist digitization includes the large enterprises, for example, such as state grid cooperation with China and China Communications Construction company.
We customized solutions compatible with their existing IT systems and equipment for efficient collaboration. This illustrates our capabilities in supporting enterprises with vast operations and sophisticated requirements. For large-scale conferences, we deliver secure, reliable and high-performance solutions, among which we have supported China importing export fair or known as the Canton Fair for 3 consecutive events since April 2020. Finally, Tencent Docs is now the leading cloud-based productivity suite in China with spreadsheet, Word processing, and slide deck applications. It also allows easy sharing of files via Weixin and QQ. Building on it's initial success in education sector, Tencent Docs is gaining popularity in traditional sectors such as finance, media, and legal. This reflects increasing functionality of the service as well as it's unique user experience for collaborated data collection and sharing.
In July 2021, student volunteers used Tencent Docs as a real-time collaborative tool for helping rescue our people track in Henan floods via data collection, editing and sharing. Our infrastructure and operations support Tencent Docs to deliver reliable performance in such an extreme situation with the documents edited over 300,000 times and accessed to over 2.5 million times within 24 hours, and in that process, saved many life.
Now with that, I will pass to James to talk about our business review.
James Mitchell
Thank you, Martin. For the second quarter of 2021, our revenue grew 20% year-on-year. VAS represented 52% of our revenue, within which the game subsegment was 31% and the social network subsegment, 21%. Online advertising was 17%, and FinTech and Business Services reached 30% of our total revenue.
For value-added services, segment revenue was RMB72 billion for the quarter, up 11% year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. Social network subsegment revenue increased 9% year-on-year to RMB29 billion, reflecting moderate growth of digital content subscriptions and in-game item sales. Total VAS subscriptions grew 13% year-on-year to 229 million. Video subscriptions increased 9% to 125 million, benefiting from our diversified content across sports, animated series, drama series, and movies. For example, our animated series, Land of Warriors as well as Battle Through the Heavens Season 4 attracted wide audience bases. Music subscriptions expanded 41% to 66 million, driven by the TME's effective marketing and by increased consumer willingness to subscribe for music services.
Games subsegment revenue increased 12% year-on-year to RMB43 billion. Our international games revenue grew 29% to RMB11 billion, or 37% in constant currency terms. Mobile games VAS revenue increased 13% year-on-year to RMB41 billion, with higher ARPU and paying user ratios. Revenue growth was primarily driven by Honor of Kings and Moonlight Blade Mobile in China and by PUBG Mobile and Clash of Clans internationally. PC client game revenue increased 1% year-on-year to RMB11 billion, as international growth from Valorant and Warframe offset domestic softness from Dungeon and Fighter.
Turning to Weixin; Mini Programs GMV more than doubled year-on-year as our decentralized commerce environment helps businesses drive their own channels and their own user relationships, while also enabling them to achieve higher profit margins than on other channels. Summarizing how the Weixin ecosystem can deliver success for our partners, brands and merchants can acquire customers for their Mini Programs off-line via QR codes and Weixin Pay. They can create and distribute content by their own off-line accounts in Weixin groups, engaging their users and driving repeat visits to Mini Programs. With powerful shopping functionalities such as single merchant membership rewards, Mini Programs can convert visits into transactions. And we're also developing video accounts and live streaming as additional touch points for deepening user connectivity.
For Q2, we enhanced the camera capabilities so as to provide better augmented reality experiences in user-generated content production and video chat. We automated the in-app video editing process, encouraging users to generate and share more appealing video content.
Turning to games, we reinforced the IP value of our leading titles. We adapted Honor of Kings into a drama series, You Are My Glory, which is now the most watched drama series on Tencent Video by video views per episode year-to-date. Honor of Kings also released a series of popular skins. PUBG Mobile collaborated with the movie, Godzilla vs. Kong, to create crossover content. And we revamped PUBG Mobile's battlefield design and combat features in July, increasing average user time spent. For Clash of Clans, we released a major content upgrade in April and launched the ninth anniversary event in August. Supercell is developing 3 new games based on the Clash IP, including the turn-based strategy game Clash Quest, which has begun beta testing in Scandinavia. Valorant achieved 14 million monthly active users on it's first anniversary, benefiting from the game's competitive gameplay, robust technology, and eSports activities. Riot is developing a mobile version of Valorant. We're also extending our presence in newly emerging games genres. Alchemy Stars, developed by our Tourdog Studio, was the most downloaded tactical RPG in Japan in July benefiting from it's anime art style unique tile-connecting gameplay and narrative created by a reputable Japanese scriptwriter.
Light and Night developed by our Aurora Studio, it became China's top dating simulation game by DAU in July with particular popularity among female players due to it's storyline. Our first survival open world crafting game, Undawn, developed by the Lightspeed & Quantum Studios, has accumulated over 30 million preregistrations in China to date, ahead of it's release on mobile. As a leader in the game industry, we have, for many years, sought to foster a healthy game-playing environment. We believe playing appropriate games in moderation can provide players with experiences such as teamwork, leadership, and skills mastery, enhance their familiarity and facility with software and, in some cases, represent a first step toward acquiring coding skills.
In 2017 we pioneered a system helping parents manage minors' game activity. In 2018 we introduced the strictest in-game measures in the China industry, with mandatory real name verification and stringent game time and spending limits. Earlier this month, we further tightened our game time spending limits beyond regulatory requirements, initially for Honor of Kings and Peacekeeper Elite and in future for our other games. We reduced the time limit for minors to 1 hour per day on non-statutory holidays, and 2 hours per day on statutory holidays. And we prevented in-game spending by players aged under 12. We're also cracking down on minors misusing adult accounts and transactions of adult accounts and third-party platforms. To fully implement a healthy game environment in China, we've advocated industry-wide coordinated discussion around regulating minors' total time spend across game, further researching age-based game classification systems and/or potentially restricting under 12-year olds from playing games altogether. During the second quarter, under 16-year olds accounted for 2.6% of our China game grossing receipts and under 12-year olds accounted for 0.3%.
Moving to Online Advertising; total revenue was RMB23 billion in the second quarter, up 23% year-on-year as growth in Internet services, consumer staples, and automobile sectors outweighed weakness in education. Since May, the China Online Advertising industry has been impacted by the sharp decline of ad spend from K-9 after-school tuition services and, to a lesser extent, by regulation of launch screen advertisements. Conversely, Apple's IDFA changes appear to have had less impact in China than widely expected. We expanded our overall advertiser base by enhancing industry solutions, enabling merchants to better manage their private and main operations within Weixin. During the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, we provided integrated marketing solutions across Weixin, QQ, Tencent Video, Tencent Sports, and Tencent News. Leveraging our strengths in social long-form and short-form video distribution as well as in content management, we believe we outperformed other online platforms in terms of video views and user sharing and activity. Our social and others advertising revenue increased 28% year-on-year to RMB20 billion, primarily driven by Weixin properties, in particular, Mini Programs as well as our mobile ad network.
For Moments advertising; more advertisers adopted Mini Programs as landing pages, leading to higher sales conversion and thus, revenue growth. Video ad inventories contributed close to half of Moments revenue. Ad revenue inside Mini Programs also doubled year-on-year, following the growth in Mini Programs' GMV. Official accounts revenue grew to the release of inventories in notification fees, and increasing recognition of Official Accounts rolled in generating sales leads. Our media advertising revenue was stable year-on-year, as increased monetization of our music apps offset weakness in our advertising on our news app.
Looking at FinTech and Business Services; segment revenue was RMB42 billion, up 40% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter with Business Services growing at a notably rapid rate. Within FinTech, year-on-year revenue growth was mainly driven by mobile payment volume growth. The number of consumers using our payment services and the number of payment transactions per consumer each increased. We believe the SMEs play a valuable role enriching our payment ecosystem and generating payment user engagement and we, in turn, seek to help SMEs benefit from greater mobile payments acceptance by charging very low or even zero payment take rates in certain cases, and by our commitment of resources and services to support SMEs growth. We're also researching new opportunities in the payment industry such as participating as a pilot in the digital yuan project where we're supporting WeBank in developing and testing it's new interface within the PBOC's digital yuan e-RMB application.
For Business Services; our revenue grew at a rapid rate year-on-year as we helped digitalization of public services in traditional industries. We experienced an increasing number of customers adopting our platform and software services such as security, AI and data analytics. Video cloud solutions are an important and rapidly growing Platform-as-a-Service segment. And according to IDC, we ranked first in China in terms of video cloud solution revenues. During the quarter, we integrated our real-time communication, instant messaging, and CDN infrastructure into a unified solution called RT1 network. For developers, RT1 enhances their efficiency by providing a one-stop software development kit for audio and video path solutions. For Tencent Cloud RT1 expands cross-selling opportunities and increases cost efficiency.
With that, I'll pass to John to discuss the financial review.
John Lo
Thank you, James. Hello, everyone. For the second quarter of 2021 total revenue was RMB138.3 billion, up 20% year-on-year or 2% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB62.7 billion, up 18% year-on-year or stable quarter-on-quarter. Net other gains were RMB20.8 billion, up 141% year-on-year or 6% quarter-on-quarter. This mainly included non-IFRS adjustments relating to our invested companies, number one; net fair value gains, reflecting increased valuations of investees, in particular, in the sectors of transportation, services, FinTech Services and local services; number two, net gains on deemed disposal and disposal of certain investee companies. These were partially offset by fair value losses or impairment against certain investees.
Operating profit was RMB52.5 billion, up 34% year-on-year or down 7% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were RMB1.9 billion, down 3% year-on-year or up 42% quarter-on-quarter. The 3% year-on-year decrease was a result of lower ForEx losses, partly offset higher interest expenses due to higher amount of indebtedness. The Q-on-Q increase reflected ForEx losses in the second quarter versus ForEx gains last quarter. Share of losses of associates and joint ventures was RMB3.9 billion compared to RMB295 million a year ago. This resulted from non-IFRS adjustments of certain associates and increased investments in community group buying initiatives by certain associates, as well as losses recognized from certain associates. On a non-IFRS basis, we shared losses of RMB449 million this quarter compared to share of profit of RMB658 million a year ago. Interest tax -- income tax expense was RMB3.7 billion this quarter. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 7.9%. IFRS net profit attributable to shareholders was RMB42.6 billion, up 49% year-on-year or down 11% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB4.387, up 28% year-on-year or down 11% quarter-on-quarter.
Now, I'll share our non-IFRS financials. For the second quarter, operating profit was RMB42.8 billion, up 14% year-on-year or largely stable quarter-on-quarter. Net profit after NCI was RMB34 billion, up 13% year-on-year or 3% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB3.504, up 12% year-on-year or 3% quarter-on-quarter.
Moving on to gross margin; the overall gross margin was 45.4%, down 0.9 percentage points both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. By segment, gross margin for VAS was 52.9%, down 0.8 points year-on-year and 2.2 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year decline was mainly due to lower contribution from privileged subscriptions and PC games, which carry relatively higher margins. The sequential decline was also due to lower revenue contributions from PC games and higher revenue mix of lower-margin digital content services with increased content costs. Gross margin for Online Advertising was 48.8%, down 2.6 percentage points year-on-year or up 3.7 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year decrease was mainly due to increased bandwidth and server costs, sequential increase mainly benefited from mix shift to higher-margin owned and operated inventories. Gross margin for FinTech and Business Services was 32%, up 3.1 percentage points year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase reflected improvement in gross margin of Business Services and mix shifts within FinTech service.
On operating expenses; selling and marketing expenses were RMB10 billion, up 29% year-on-year or 17% quarter-on-quarter. Both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter increase mainly reflected increased market spending on Business Services, digital content services and games, including marketing spend associated with subsidiaries we consolidated over the past year. As a percentage of revenues, S&M expenses was 7% of revenues, broadly stable compared to the second quarter of 2020. R&D expenses were RMB12.8 billion, up 30% year-on-year or 14% quarter-on-quarter. R&D expenses represented 9% of revenues. G&A expenses, excluding R&D, were RMB9.8 billion, up 48% year-on-year or 28% quarter-on-quarter. Both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter increase reflected retail staff force. Excluding share-based compensation, it increased by 37% year-on-year or 10% quarter-on-quarter. At quarter end we had approximately 94,000 employees, up 33% year-on-year or 6% quarter-on-quarter.
Let's take a look at the operating and net margin ratios. For the second quarter, net non-IFRS operating margin was 31%, down 1.8 percentage points year-on-year and 0.6 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net margin was 25.4%, down 1.8 percentage points year-on-year or largely stable quarter-on-quarter. Finally, I will share some key financial metrics for the quarter. Total CapEx was RMB6.9 billion, down 27% year-on-year or 10% quarter-on-quarter, within which operating CapEx was RMB5.9 billion, down 29% from the high base in the second quarter of 2020 as we advance procurement and amidst the pandemic at that time. Non-operating CapEx decreased 11% year-on-year to RMB1.1 billion, reflecting lower spending on land use rights and data center construction.
Free cash flow for the quarter was RMB17.3 billion, down 39% year-on-year or 48% quarter-on-quarter. Net debt position was RMB21 billion compared to net cash of RMB5.6 billion last quarter, mainly due to a net cash outflow for M&A activities and 2020 dividends of RMB12.5 billion, partly offset by free cash flow generation. The fair value of our shareholdings and listed investee companies, excluding subsidiaries, was approximately RMB1.45 trillion or US$224 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Thank you. We shall now open the floor for questions.
Wendy Huang
Operator, we will take one questions with up to one follow-up question from each analyst [ph]. We invite the first question.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. May we invite the first question from Hanjin -- sorry, from Alicia Yap from Citigroup. Please go ahead.
Alicia Yap
Hi, good evening, management. Thanks for taking my questions. My first question is related to the advertising. So how should we think about this overall ad revenue growth in the second half of this year given there are more advertiser adopting the Mini Programs as the landing pages, which will help Moments advertising that lead to higher revenue opportunity. But in the meantime, there are regulatory headwinds on limiting this launch screen app and also overall macro weakness that might lead to some cautious ad spending. So, any color on the near-term ad revenue growth outlook, and also the longer-term ad revenue opportunity given further integration of these video account and Moments that you're going to have within your Mini Programs ecosystem? Second question, very quickly is, you mentioned about you're deploying more of your technology and expertise to help the SME, the public service, and also the enterprises with Tencent Docs and all these cloud-based productivity solution. How should we think about these -- any complementary service that could evolve and develop around this software that could translate to future business opportunity? Thank you.
James Mitchell
So Alicia, on your first question around advertising, I think you summarized the puts and takes fairly well. Taking a long-term strategic view, we're very happy with our position and how it's evolving, particularly in a couple of areas. One being, as you alluded to, the increasing adoption of Mini Programs by enterprises within Weixin, which helps us in a number of ways. First, it means that advertising within Weixin has more of a performance component, more akin to a search environment or a marketplace environment rather than the media environment, which is beneficial for advertising activity within Weixin Moments, within Weixin Official Accounts and elsewhere. And then secondly, the Mini Programs themselves constitute advertising inventory. So we mentioned that the advertising revenue within the Mini Programs themselves, which is quite substantial, more than doubled year-on-year during the second quarter. And overall, you can see that our advertising gross margins improved somewhat from the first quarter to the second quarter due to a mix shift from our lower-margin ad network business toward our higher-margin Weixin properties.
Then secondly, from an inventory perspective, we're seeing good growth in video accounts, DAU, and time spent. And that growth has benefited from the addition of high-quality content such as the Olympics in recent weeks. And over the longer term, when we monetize that video accounts inventory, and we know from the experience of other short video services that both the ad loads and the CPMs can be attractive, relative to other advertising properties. So, those are 2 structural drivers over the longer term, the Mini Programs adoption and the video account inventory creation. In the near term, our expectation is the overall online ad industry will experience slower growth in the third quarter than the second quarter, and that is partly because of the full quarter impact of a very sharp reduction in advertising by K-9 after-school tuition services, to a lesser extent, the negative effect on the supply side from the flash screen advertising regulation changes and then potentially a deceleration in overall consumer activity as well; so that's on the advertising side.
Martin Lau
Now, in terms of the productivity software side; I think these are services, which we don't monetize directly at this point in time, but we believe the category, a lot of value to the customers. And overtime, they'll be valuable commercial products as well. But more immediately, right, a lot of these solutions, when they are deployed by enterprise customers, it actually help us to open the door and as a result, can help us to sell our cloud services as well as our ad services to these companies; that's the immediate benefits. And then overtime, if you look at the U.S. market, right, each one of the product that we have actually has got a very successful commercial product in the U.S. For example, Tencent Meeting, the counterpart is Zoom. And if you look at WeCom, it's partly Salesforce, partly Shopify. And Tencent Docs, it's Google Docs and Microsoft Office. And these services all have their own monetization and business models. And I think overtime, while we don't charge at this point in time, at the time, we may develop value-added service and for certain customers who want to use these value-added services, there will be some kind of a commercial solution.
And looking further into the future, these solutions also have to build an ecosystem of SaaS software. So there will be other SaaS software who can actually rely on our productivity too and provide their services to the enterprise customers, and we can actually derive some value from there as well. So all in all, we believe that at this point in time, it's a very valuable suite of service from a user value perspective. Overtime, they would help us to generate commercial values as well.
Wendy Huang
Operator, let's go to the next question.
Operator
Thank you. Certainly. The next question comes from Han Joon Kim from Macquarie. Please ask your questions.
Han Joon Kim
Great. Thank you for your time today management. The first question really goes to kind of -- there's been a lot of regulatory developments in the market. Are there any in particular that you want to call out as things that might have been different from the way that you were envisioning in a few months or a few quarters ago, and how that might impact our strategic initiatives or priorities and so forth? So if you can just kind of call out 1 or 2 of them; that would be great. And that dovetails into my second question, which is around perpetual [ph] tax that I think the industry has been benefiting from over the years. And I think some of your peers in the market have indicated that perhaps some of those perpetual treatment might be slowing to ebb away. So I just wanted to get some 