Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY) Q1 2020 Results Earnings Conference Call May 13, 2020  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Wendy Huang - Investor Relations
Pony Ma - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Martin Lau - Executive Director and President
James Mitchell - Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer
John Lo - Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Office
Conference Call Participants
Gregory Zhao - Barclays
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Jerry Liu - UBS
John Choi - Daiwa Capital Markets
Alicia Yap - Citigroup
Alex Yao - J.P. Morgan
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Binnie Wong - HSBC
William Packer - Exane BNP
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tencent Holdings Limited 2020 First Quarter Results Announcement Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I will pass the call to Wendy Huang from Tencent IR team. Thank you. Please go ahead.
Wendy Huang
Good evening. Welcome to our 2020 first quarter results conference call. Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements, which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties, and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent.
This presentation also contains some unaudited non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures of the company’s financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. Non-IFRS measures are intended to reflect our core earnings by excluding certain one-time and/or non-cash items. For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosures on the IR section of our website.
Now, let me introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick-off with a short overview. President, Martin Lau and Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will provide a business review. Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial review, before we open the floor for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma
Thank you, Wendy. Good evening [ph]. Thank you for joining our call at this unusual time. As the world tackles COVID-19, our thoughts and hearts go out to all the people who are suffering from the pandemic. During this difficult period, we seek to provide online services that keep people connected, informed, productive, and entertained. So far, our businesses have proved resilient and cash flow generative, enabling us to increase our investment to fulfill our mission of “Tech for Good”. We are allocating time and resources, including over RMB2 billion of donations, to contribute to COVID-19 relief initiatives in China and globally.
And now, I will highlight the results for the first quarter of 2020. Total revenues were RMB108 billion, up 26% year-on-year and 2% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB53 billion up 33% year-on-year and 15% quarter-on-quarter. Our non-IFRS operating profit was RMB36 billion up 25% year-on-year and 17% quarter-over-quarter. Non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB27 billion, up 39% year-on-year.
Our platforms and short ads have never been more neat and relevant as users based at home. We believe this experience will also lead to realization of digitalization going forward. In short, users heavily rely on our social platforms to stay connected. Combined MAU of Weixin and WeChat increased 8% year-on-year to over 1.2 billion.
In games, more players spent more time online further strengthening our number one position in China. Our games also continued to grow internationally. In media, video views and subscriptions continued to expand as we released top tier content. Music subscriptions increased driven by disruptive content [indiscernible] strategy.
In FinTech we operate the largest mobile payment platform in China by DAU and number of transactions, increasing efficiency and supporting more business. In cloud we are number 2 public cloud services provider in China steadily picking up market share and earnings. In utilities, we maintained our industry leadership in mobile security, mobile browser and Android app store in China.
I will invite Martin and James to discuss business review.
Martin Lau
Thank you, Pony, and good evening and good morning to everybody. For the first quarter of 2020 our total revenue grew 26% year-on-year. VAS represented 58% of our total revenue within which online games was 35% and social networks was 23%. FinTech and business services represented 25% of total revenue and online advertising represented 16% of total revenue.
For value added services segment revenue was RMB62.4 billion in the first quarter, up 27% year-on-year and 19% quarter-on-quarter. In social networks revenue grew both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter mainly driven by item sales in sports and games. Total VAS subscriptions increased 19% year-on-year to 197 million reflecting robust growth in video and music subscriptions as users spend more time online. Our video subscriptions increased 26% year-on-year to 112 million due to popular self commissioned drama and Chinese anime series such as Sansheng Sanshi Pillow and The Land of Warriors Season 3.
Our music services and expanding paid music library contributed to subscriptions growth of 50% year-on-year to 43 million. Online games revenue grew 31% year-on-year and 23% quarter-on-quarter driven by more active users and higher paying ratio during the stay-at-home period. Consumption will normalize as users return to work.
Total smartphone games revenue increased 64% year-on-year to RMB34.8 billion driven by key titles including Honour of Kings, Peascekeeper Elite and PUBG Mobile, as well as consolidation of Supercell. Sequentially revenue grew 33% due to more playing time during the Chinese New Year and stay-at-home period. PC client games revenue decreased 15% year-on-year to RMB11.8 billion due to temporary closure of internet cafes and softer DnF performance. Revenue increased quarter-on-quarter unfavorable seasonality.
Turning to social networks, we are highly motivated by our roles and responsibilities in creating and helping people to stay in touch with their friends and families and in connecting people to necessary services during this critical period. User engagement on Weixin and QQ increased with daily messages and time spent on each service up double-digits year-on-year.
We strengthened several functionalities on Weixin and QQ platforms to better serve specific use cases. For example, for e-learning teachers can now customize QQ groups to involve relevant Mini Programs such as online exams and homework collection tools to better manage online classes. Students can experience community study time, year, virtual study rooms. For healthcare Services we connect Weixin users with medical professionals in private or group chats, initiated via Tencent Health Mini Programs or access splint embedded innovation pay.
To support remote presentation, we extended QQ's screen sharing function [indiscernible] from PC to mobile devices. On daily services we increased penetration in off-line use cases contributing to Weixin Mini Programs exceeding 400 million DAU. We helped to accelerate digital distribution or omni-channel consumption for off-line services, especially grocery shopping and municipal services. We assisted local governments and businesses to disseminate e-vouchers expediting the recovery in off-line consumption after the lockdown is over, especially for retailers and restaurants.
Let's move on to online games. During the stay-at-home period users spent more time on our games for entertainment and social interactions, leveraging our best-in-class game content and large in-game social communities. We captured incremental entertainment demand. Our smartphone games DAU recorded strong growth year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.
Among our leading mobile titles in China we upgraded Honour of Kings game engine last year, which allowed us to enhance audio and visual experiences of the game, enabling more attractive content, such as the five [indiscernible] themes games we released during the Chinese New Year. We also introduced location-based play system which encouraged more interactions among players in the same city.
Peacekeeper Elite collaborated with Rocket Girls 101, an idol girl group managed by Tencent, which emerged from our popular TV variety show. This drove user engagement to a new high, demonstrating the success of our cross-IP synergy.
Internationally, PUBG Mobile celebrated its second anniversary with multiple in-game events, but we tailored our operations regionally to increase user reach and engagement. For League of Legends we launched Teamfight Tactics mobile app as well as new content contributing to higher user retention and time spent for this longstanding franchise.
For Brawl Stars’ the high cadence content updates kept user engaged and optimized player-matching mechanisms further enhanced user experience. We do have a substantial new game pipeline. In China we will launch more titles across different genres by June. Internationally, licensed mobile RPG Code: D- Blood achieved initial success by downloads as well as growth in Japan.
Riots new PC tactical shooter Valorant drew enthusiastic responses from players during closed beta testing and was the most viewed title on Twitch in its first month. Looking forward, we expect in-game consumption activities to dip back toward more normal levels as players go back to work and time spent in games normalizes.
With that, I'll now pass on to James.
James Mitchell
Thank you, Matin. Turning to online advertizing, revenue was RMB17.7 billion in the first quarter. The above trend year-on-year growth rate of 32% reflected A) increased consumer time spent on our apps during the stay-at-home period which we expect to normalize in future quarters and B) our platforms ability to deliver attractive returns on investment to advertisers. Sequentially, advertizing revenue decreased due to seasonality.
By industry, games, internet services and online education add spend rose year-on-year as these categories increased spending in reaction to more traffic and consumption for their services during the stay-at-home period. Fast moving consumer goods, auto and travel related ad spends declined.
Looking forward, we expect the overall China online advertising industry to experience industry wide headwinds, including first, consumers normalizing down the time spent online, second online services advertisers adjusting their customer acquisition budgets as they reflect revised customer lifetime value assumptions, and third, multinational brands reducing their spending significantly as they face the pandemic in their own markets.
For social and others advertising revenue grew 47% year-on-year driven by increased ad impressions particularly on Moments. Our mobile ad network revenue also expanded sharply on more traffic and higher eCPMs with video ads now representing over one-third of our ad network ad impressions. We expect our social advertising revenue to revert to what its prior trend growth rate from the second quarter as ad impressions normalize somewhat and as some advertising categories review their customer acquisition budgets.
For media advertising, revenue was RMB3.1 billion for the first quarter down 10% year-on-year within which sponsorship ad revenue declined year-on-year as well as quarter-on-quarter due to budget cuts, delays in producing and airing certain variety shows, and suspension of NBA basketball games. In-feed advertising revenue grew year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter due to the popularity of several top-tier drama series and demand for reliable news and information during the pandemic. We expect media advertising revenue trends will be more challenging in the second quarter as multinationals reduce their brand budgets.
Looking at FinTech and Business Services, segment revenue was RMB26.5 billion, up 22% year-on-year and down 12% quarter-on-quarter. Within FinTech, revenue decreased sequentially as commercial payments, especially off-line payment activities and cash withdrawals reduced during the Chinese New Year and stay-at-home periods. FinTech margins were stable sequentially with higher margin revenue streams such s wealth management and lending continued to grow, and as we managed our marketing and subsidy costs.
Looking forward we see a healthy rebound in payments activities across off-line and online and QR Code as well as point-of-sales transactions. For example, during the last week of April, our average daily commercial transactions value had recovered to late 2019 levels. Our wealth management business grew at a stable rate in the first quarter, as aggregated customer assets increased year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. And our WeiLiDai’s loan book remained healthy, reflecting WeBank’s prudent risk management policy.
Within business services, the pandemic delayed project deployments and new account acquisition resulting in a sequential revenue decline. However, our Tencent Meeting software achieved breakout success and became the leading video conference app in China. We strengthened its security measures and introduced new functions to facilitate discussion and conference call management. In late March we launched an international version of Tencent Meeting.
For WeChat Work we enhanced industry solutions and deepened integration with Weixin, helping us to sign more key accounts, especially in the retail, education and public sectors. Consequently, WeChat Work DAU has grown significantly during the period. Looking forward, we expect business services to remain challenging in the short term due to disruptive sales cycles. But we will continue increasing our investments especially in enterprise, software and cloud services as we believe the experience of remote working will ultimately prompt off-line industries and the public sector to accelerate digitalization.
And with that, I'll pass it to John to speak to financials.
John Lo
Thank you, James. Hello everybody. For the first quarter of 2020 total revenue was RMB108.1 billion, up 26% year-on-year or 2% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB52.8 billion, up 33% year-on-year or 15% quarter-on-quarter. Net other gains was RMB4 billion, down 64% year-on-year or up 11% quarter-on-quarter. This item mainly comprised of non-IFRS adjustment items including net gain on disposal of certain investee companies as well as net fair value gains on the investee companies. It was partially offset by RMB2.6 billion donations, primarily to combat the COVID-19 pandemic globally.
Operating profit was RMB27.3 billion, up 1% year-on-year or 30% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were RMB1.7 billion, up 51% year-on-year or down 39% quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase was mainly driven by greater interest expense resulted from higher amount of indebtedness. The quarter-on-quarter decrease was due to the recognition of forex gains for Q1 2020 while we recorded a forex loss a quarter ago.
Share of losses of associates and joint ventures was RMB281 million down 90% year-on-year or 79% quarter-on-quarter, mainly due to changes in non-IFRS adjustment items of certain associates. On a non-IFRS basis we recorded share of profit of RMB164 million for the first quarter of 2020 comparing share of losses of RMB518 million a year ago. The change mainly reflected improved performance of certain investee companies.
Income tax expense were RMB5.9 billion, RMB2.1 billion, and RMB4.8 billion for quarter 1 2020, quarter 4, 2019 and quarter 1 2019 respectively. Effective tax rate for the quarter was 16.7%. IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB28.9 billion, up 6% year-on-year or $34% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB2.999 up 5% year-on-year and 33% quarter-on-quarter.
Now, let me walk you through our non-IFRS financial numbers. For the first quarter, operating profit was RMB35.6 billion, up 25% year-on-year or 17% quarter-on-quarter. Net profit after NCI was RMB27.1 billion, up 29% year-on-year or 6% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB2.817 up 29% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter.
Turning to segment gross margin. Gross margins for VAS was 59%, up 1.4 percentage points year-on-year and 8.9 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year growth was mainly due to improved margin for both PC and smartphone games resulting from improved revenue mix towards high margin in-house games.
The sequential increase was benefited from revenue mix shift towards high margin in-house smartphone games, increase in margin of video subscription business as a result of high subscription revenue and lower content cost due to the pandemic, and the absence of major eSports events, therefore lower content costs quarter-on-quarter.
Gross margin for online advertising was 49.2% up 7.3 percentage points year-on-year or down 5.1 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase reflected lower content costs for video advertising and improved efficiency. Sequential decline mainly reflected revenue decrease due to negative seasonality.
Gross margin for FinTech and business services was 27.9% broadly stable year-over-year and quarter-on-quarter. On operating expenses, selling and marketing expenses were RMB7 billion, up 66% year-on-year or 5% quarter-on-quarter. Marketing spending increased year-on-year particularly in content platforms including Weixin's marketing campaigns during the Chinese New Year. As a percentage of revenue selling and marketing expense increased from 5% in the first quarter of 2019 to 6.5% this quarter.
G&A expenses were RMB14.2 billion up 25% year-on-year or down 12% quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase mainly reflected greater R&D expenses and staff costs as we invested in talent and technology to support business development. The Q-on-Q decrease reflected reduced outsourcing activities for R&D projects, and reduced traveling and entertainment expenses due to the pandemic. As a result - as a percentage of revenue, G&A and R&D represented 13.1% and 7.4% respectively. As at quarter end, we had approximately 64,000 employees, up 18% year-on-year or 2% quarter-on-quarter.
Let's take a look at the margin ratios. For the first quarter of 2020, gross margin was 48.9%, up 2.3 percentage points year-on-year or 5.3 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase mainly reflected segment gross margin ratios improvement built through to a branded gross margin, especially for VAS and Online Advertising segments.
Sequentially, the margin increase was mainly due to revenue mix shift to VAS which carry a higher margin. Non-IFRS operating margin was 32.9%, broadly stable year-on-year or up 4.2 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net margin was 25.9%, largely stable both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.
Finally, I'll share with you some key financial metrics for the quarter. Total CapEx was RMB6.2 billion, an increase of 37% year-on-year or decrease of 64% quarter-on-quarter, within which operating CapEx grew 41% year-on-year to RMB5.5 billion, mainly due to more spending on servers to support operation of Tencent Cloud business, such as Tencent Meeting; non-operating CapEx increased 7% year-on-year to RMB682 million.
At quarter end, free cash flow was RMB39.2 billion, up 133% year-on-year or 25% quarter-on-quarter. Starting from 2020, we adjusted our free cash flow parameters according to the latest market practice by subtracting payments for media content and lease liabilities, in addition to subtracting payments for capital expenditure from the operating cash flow. Comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Net debt position was RMB5.7 billion, improved sequentially due to stronger operating cash flow, partially offset by payments for M&A initiatives. The fair value of our shareholdings in listed investee companies, excluding subsidiaries, was approximately RMB410 billion, that is about US$58 billion. Thank you.
Wendy Huang
Thanks John. We shall now open the floor for questions. Operator, we will take one main question and one follow-up question each time. Please invite your first question. Operator?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from Gregory Zhao from Barclays. Please ask your question.
Gregory Zhao
Hi, management. Thanks for taking my question and congratulations to the very strong quarter. So first, I have one big picture question is we know COVID-19 is gradually passing in China, so from your point of view, so what kind of structural changes COVID-19 brought to the industry and to Tencent, and also how shall we think about the changes to the user behaviors and your business strategies?
So also a quick one about your overseas gaming business in Q2. So we saw Activision Blizzard and some other gaming company give very strong guidance for Q2, and we know the corona is still ongoing in the overseas market in Q2. Shall we expect Tencent to deliver stronger overseas gaming performance in Q2? Thank you.
Martin Lau
Yes, thanks for your question. I think in terms of structural changes, the biggest structural change is really for businesses and organizations to realize that there needs to be an online presence. When everything is actually shut down physically and offline, then it's actually very important for the businesses and organizations to be able to have online access to their consumers and then to the users via Internet. So I think that's a big realization. I think everybody feels that it's coming, but having experience to COVID-19 lockdown means that, it's real and it's existential.
So I think that will translate into many different fronts. For example, on retail, there will be more investment by the retail shops and brands to establish direct linkage with the consumers. And I think Mini Programs is really one key infrastructure for them to be able to do that.
I think different government and municipal government and services would need to bring themselves online, and that would increase the overall investment in technology infrastructure and cloud investments on a longer-term basis. And in terms of specific segments, right, obviously there will be companies who need to build up remote working infrastructure and I think that would benefit tools that enable remote working. And obviously, Tencent Meeting, has grown its user significantly during this pandemic period.
And in terms of verticals, I think online education is one area that would definitely benefit going forward, because I think a lot of students have been experienced with online education and the parents have also experienced that and that would drive the adoption of such a mode of education going forward.
Online healthcare will be another area in which a lot of users would like to have access to more health-related information, and they're are getting used to having their disease diagnosed online both through AI or even connection with medical professionals. And the awareness of health would be much stronger going forward. And I think online healthcare would be one area that would grow significantly in the future.
So I think these are all the structural changes, right, you know that COVID-19 brings to the overall society, as well as the mindset of businesses. I think a lot of the consumers' mindset is already very much on mobile internet, but the businesses - there is some sort of inertia for them to make changes. But having experienced COVID-19, I think the imperatives for change would be much stronger. And rest assured that there are a lot of investments that we have made in the past and we will be making even more for the future, which help us to take advantage and facilitate, and even lead these structural changes.
So, on the gaming part, I'll ask James to answer.
James Mitchell
Thank you for the question on the overseas game market, Gregory. So we believe that the game markets outside China, R&D is following a somewhat similar path to the market inside China. It has obviously a roughly two-month time lag given the later start of the stay-at-home periods in the rest of the world and the extent may not be as pronounced as in China. First of all, because in some regions, the lock-downs, the stay-at-home period is less pronounced than in China.
And then secondly, because there may be some consumers who are concerned about unemployment risks, which may mitigate their in-games spending. But overall, there is an uplift in use of time spent on games. Going - I don’t want to be more granular, the games are seeing the biggest uplift are generally those that have longer session lengths, because people now have more time to play the longer session length games and also the games that are somewhat team based in nature, which I think reflects people realizing that, perhaps surprisingly it actually missed their work colleagues and they want to socialize with them, and one way of doing that is through games, through team-based games.
Looking forward, of course, we expect and hope that the situation will normalize in the rest of the world as it has done in China. But taking a more - longer-term view, it's also worth observing that we are in the fortunate position of continuing to launch games globally during this period. And Martin mentioned Code: D- Blood and RPG that we launched in Japan. Riot has launched its Legends of Runeterra card game on mobile and PC in the last few days. And then as Martin also mentioned, Riot has launched Valorant which had an extremely positive reception from hardcore gamers on PC in the last month.
Gregory Zhao
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Piyush Mubayi from Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question.
Piyush Mubayi
Thank you for taking my question and congratulations on your numbers. Hearing your commentary about how strong the quarter was and how you think the second quarter could see a reversal of that, could you just go through that fact about how much traffic is coming off and how quickly that's slowing down to the extent possible in the months of April and May?
And just diving further into that question, if you look at advertising, how would advertising, for example, change or slowdown from the pace that we've seen in the month of - in the first quarter? And from - if you go back and look at the ad load increase that came through, that wasn't a full quarter increase, if I'm not wrong about it, so surely the second quarter and hereafter, you should see substantial strength in the first quarter play through into Q2 and the rest of the year. Is there something we're missing here?
Martin Lau
Piyush, sorry, on the first question which business were you alluding to specifically?
Piyush Mubayi
I'm alluding to the overall business, the strength that you've seen in the first quarter on both advertising and gaming, and your commentary that you're likely to see this reverse into Q2 because your guidance sounds a little bit more conservative?
Martin Lau
I mean for whatever benefit that came through in the first quarter, because people said they want more and thus have more time on the screen and spend more time on games and video and Internet services. We are seeing that normalizing basically five launched in April. It started to normalize in March, but pretty much normalized in April, and all normalized after May 1st holidays. So I think - that's sort of - the extent that you should think about. And in terms of advertising, I think, James probably will give you some color.
James Mitchell
Yes, I mean, this might be reiterating what we said in the prepared remarks in which case I apologize. We'll try to go a little bit deeper or a little bit clearer in case it wasn't clear. So the three factors that we think will act as headwinds for the industry as we look forward beyond the first quarter. The first is that, in the first quarter, because of people staying at home, they spent more time online and more time results in more impressions, and particularly to the direct response to advertisers if there is more impressions than what else equaled out mechanically, buy more and spend more money with the industry as a whole. And so, our assumption is that going into the second quarter as people return to work and to school, the quantity of assailable impressions will normalize.
Then second factor is that, if you look at how the direct response advertisers operate, then they have a certain customer lifetime value assumption based on historic ARPUs, based on historic churn rates, and so forth. And they will bid up the eCDM [ph] or eCPC that they're willing to pay to a customer acquisition costs that is derived from that customer lifetime value assumption.
And in the very short-term, if that's a sudden shock, which was the case with the COVID-19, then they may not have time to fully update the customer lifetime value assumptions. But over the months as the situation stabilizes, then they may decide to review the customer lifetime value assumptions due to different assumptions about churn rate or different assumptions about retention rates or they may not, we don't know, but it's a risk.
What we do know is a third factor, which is the certain online advertising properties in China, such as online video, then historically close to half of the advertising revenue in that industry came from multinationals. And what we've seen in the last few weeks is that half of the revenue that comes from local China-based companies has been fairly resilient.
But the half of the revenue long-form video that comes from multinationals has experienced a substantial step down and a hypothesis is this reflects the fact that these multinationals have a global perspective, and to some extent, what they're seeing in the rest of the world affects how willing they are to spend money in every country including in China.
So those are all headwinds that we think will affect the industry and what may affect us, and - you should bear in mind. But I think that it's important not to get that in the parts, that's why it's been in this sort of discussion around whether our advertising revenue growth was constrained by lack of advertiser demand because of the ROIs, audience viewer tracking or limited supply. And I think what you can see from these results is, when there is a surge in supply, even if it's a surge in supply for reasons outside our control and beyond our expectations, then our revenue experiences a corresponding uplift, because fundamentally 