Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY) Q4 2020 Earnings Conference Call March 24, 2021  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Wendy Huang - IR
Pony Ma - Chairman and CEO
Martin Lau - President
James Mitchell - Chief Strategy Officer
John Lo - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Robin Zhu - Bernstein
Alicia Yap - Citigroup
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
John Choi - Daiwa Capital Markets
William Packer - Exane BNP Paribas
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to Tencent Holdings Limited 2020 Fourth Quarter and Annual Results Announcement Conference Call. Well, at this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Wendy Huang from Tencent Investor Relations. Thank you. Please go ahead.
Wendy Huang
Thank you, operator. Good evening. Welcome to our 2020 fourth quarter and annual results conference call. I'm Wendy Huang from Tencent IR team.
Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements, which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent.
This presentation also contains some unaudited non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures of the company's financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosure documents on the IR section of our website.
Let me now introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick off with a short overview including ESG initiatives. President, Martin Lau, will discuss strategy review. Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will speak to business review and the Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial discussion before we open the floor for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma
Okay, thank you. Good evening everyone. Thank you for joining us. 2020 was unprecedented year with many challenges. Having said that, we have delivered solid results. We believe our low cost operating and financial results testify to our focus on user value and technology innovation.
Let me walk you through some of our key achievements. In Social with strengthening Weixin's value proposition for users and enterprises, our new feature, Video Accounts enabled public sharing of informative and educational content in video format. Mini Programs continued to deepen penetration in more user cases with annual transaction volume more than doubling year-on-year.
For QQ we increased stickiness among young users by enriching shared experience and catering to their entertainment and eLearning needs. In games, our worldwide revenue grew 36% year-on-year with increasing contribution from international markets. We reinforced our leadership across Mobile and PC by expanding user bases for major games and launching successful new games.
In content, we extend IP value of course literally literature, animate, games and long form video to create unique and appealing content. We became clear #1 in China video subscription market. In advertising, we integrated advertising platforms, strengthening Tencent's own properties as well as Mobile ad network preferred choices or advertisers.
In FinTech services, payment user engage and commercial payment volume increased healthily. We will continue to work closely with the regulators and industry partners to deliver complaint FinTech products, while prioritizing risk management over scale.
In business services, Tencent Meeting has become the largest standalone app for cloud conferencing in China. Innovations such as our customized Star Lake server solution and self developed T-block data center technology enhance our cloud services performance and cost efficiency.
Now let me go through the headline numbers for the fourth quarter. Total revenue was RMB 134 billion up 26% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 59 billion, up 28% year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS operating profit was RMB 38 billion, up 26% year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders were RMB 33 billion, up 30% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter.
Moving to key services. In social, combined MAU of Weixin and WeChat further rose to 1.23 billion. Smart devices MAU of QQ was 595 million. Martin and James will speak to each of our other key services later. In 2020, we continued to implement various initiatives around our mission of Tech for Good. As the world navigates through COVID-19, technology play a more significant role in restoring normal life and business activity. We provide users with convenient access to healthcare, education and public services in our products and technology.
We help enterprise clients to maintain business continuity with various tools and products. Mini Programs and Weixin Pay facilitated consumer spending during the lockdown, and expedited digitalization of offline retailers and brands after that. For charities, we have built an efficient online fundraising platform and utilized technology to assist their digital upgrade. In 2020, our flagship event, 99 Giving Day engaged over 18 million users and 10,000 charities, raising RMB3 billion in three days.
For inclusion, we are bridging the digital device for the elderly and the disadvantaged. Weixin Relative Card enable senior users to enjoy the benefits of digital payments without hassles. And image to speech in QQ helps visually impaired users interact with friends. We are also facilitating a rural virtualization with WeCounty initiative.
For other ESG commitment, we are moving towards carbon neutrality by leveraging AI, big data and cloud computing. We adhere to privacy by design and deploy advanced security technologies to safeguard users’ data. To advocate the digital wellbeing for teenage users in China, we continuously upgrade our Healthy Gameplay System. Looking forward, we will continue to integrate the social responsibility into our operations, products, and services, creating long-term value for all stakeholders.
I will now invite Martin to discuss strategy review.
Martin Lau
Thank you, Pony and good evening and good morning to everybody. In this section, I will discuss our strategic investment in innovation which we believe is the main driver of our business performance in the past and for the future. With a focus on user experience, we pursue continuous innovation to enhance our platforms. We invest in incremental innovation to enrich existing product experiences and also invest in transformative innovation to create new products to certain new user needs. Many of these innovations have taken years of patient investment to yield results.
In Communication and Social for example, we started with Mobile Chat and added Social Networking, Official Accounts, Payments, Mini Programs over the years. At the present time, we are incubating Video Accounts as a new innovation. In the area of games, we created new and exciting titles internally and through partnerships, as well as continuously upgrade our game-tech.
In SaaS, we identified this emerging opportunity in China when we announced our strategic upgrade to the industrial Internet in 2018. Over the past year we achieved breakout growth in productivity and communications software. In HealthTech we are utilizing our AI Mini Programs and communication tools to solve industry pain points. In ecosystem we support innovative companies via capital investment and business partnerships to better serve users and enterprises.
For the rest of this section I will discuss how innovation has driven each one of these areas and how it will continue to drive our sustainable long term growth. Let's first start with Weixin Video Accounts which represent our recent innovation in the Communications and Social space.
Utilization of content for easy consumption is a key global trend. We saw significant increase in uploads and sharing of short videos within Weixin Moments and chats. Hence Video Accounts was created as a separate ID-based short film content creation platform within Weixin. Video Accounts enable video uploads and sharing as well as live streaming in a public audience.
Through aggregating content providers digital assets within Weixin such as Official Accounts and Mini Programs, Video Accounts help reinforce the branding and facilitate users engagement and transactions. In addition, the unique strength of our Video Accounts linking public domain to private domain, which provides an unparalleled channel for businesses to acquire and manage their own customers.
Video accounts is attracting increasing number of high-quality content providers who generate both informative as well as educational and entertainment content. We recommend content to users based on social, interest graph and algorithm which can diversify the mix of users content consumption.
Turning to games, during the year 2020, we launched several new and exciting titles and made breakthrough in new technology applications, such as gaming and AI and cloud gaming. For new games we released Valorant on PC for the international markets, as well as Moonlight Blade Mobile and Call of Duty Mobile in China. Each game offers unique experience by innovating in character abilities, environmental design gameplays and controls, and thereby achieving best in class performance.
Valorant, a team based tactical shooter, which Riot Games spent over six years to develop, was the most successful in new PC game internationally. In China, Moonlight Blade Mobile was the best performing new MMORPG for the year and was supported by our proprietary game engine [indiscernible] to 10 years of dedicated development. Call of Duty Mobile, the highest DAU game launched in 2020 in China is a high-quality complement to the franchise console and PC versions.
For existing titles we are continuously innovating games to refresh user experience. For example, Honor of Kings is an early adopter of next-generation rendering and high dynamic range imaging technologies in China, which enhances visual effects and makes animation more realistic, detailed and natural. And Honour of Kings was the top grossing mobile game in China for the fourth consecutive year and worldwide for the second consecutive year. We also tested game AI Wukong in Honour of Kings which attracted over 50 million player participants within four days of trial. Wukong is the first AI agent able to play full mobile game with deep reinforcement learning, and it will be applied to more game genres should enhance the PvE experience.
In cloud gaming, we are the first mover to launch platforms and games providing high quality in-game experience across different devices, among which START platform is cooperating with leading TV manufacturers to offer MMO games on smart TV. XianYou platform offers more than 100 mobile games including Honor of Kings and Peacekeeper Elite to play even on low end phones.
Moving on to communication and productivity SaaS, we achieved breakout growth in 2020, especially for WeCom, Tencent Meeting, and Tencent Docs. We strengthened interoperability between WeCom and Weixin allowed increasing number of retailers, service providers, and teachers to connect to over 400 million users. This also boosted the WeCom's customer base to 5.5 million enterprises. We are upholding the open strategy and introduced multiple cooperation model to wrap up the growth partnerships with OA application vendors in order to better sign up enterprises clients together. Besides, by leveraging synergies with Tencent Cloud sales force, WeCom successfully increased penetration K-12 education market.
In view of growing needs for virtual meetings, we launched Tencent Meeting in 2020 which accumulated over 100 million users and has become the most used standalone app for cloud conferencing in China. During the year we launched enterprise version for key accounts and enhanced e-meeting capabilities, delivering superior experience for enterprise customers. We developed new solutions, rooms and connector in order to expand Tencent Meeting compatibility with the client's existing devices, saving costs for them and facilitating adoption for us.
Our signature productivity solution Tencent Docs is the first mover in China to provide online solutions that efficiency generate tables based on during collaborated data entry. During the year we continued to add new features such as AI supported optical character and speech recognition input to enhance user experience and productivity. Through extensive integration with other software such as QQ, QQ Browser and other SaaS products, Tencent Docs expanded use cases and recorded over 100 million monthly active users in 2020 more than double or quadrupled year-on-year.
Next on Health Tech, our product metrics includes Tencent Health, Tencent Medipedia and Health Code, providing innovative solutions to digitize offline healthcare services and benefit the entire industry. Tencent Health, and all in one entry point for online healthcare services has added more COVID-19 related services such as appointment for testing and vaccination. Total active users exceed 400 million. We also included medical insurance e-certificate and electronic health card within Tencent Health. Users can bundle medical insurance e-certificates with their social basic medical insurance accounts to conduct mobile payment in more than 10,000 hospitals, 200,000 pharmacies across 200 plus cities. Our electronic health card serves as a health information management tool for users and their families and now is available online in more than 2000 hospitals.
Tencent Medipedia, a reliable medical information source, expanded the number of medical terms to over 120,000 leading in China. We utilized AI technology to enhance medical experts efficiency in reviewing content. We enriched content formats from text, picture to short film and live streaming. Tencent Medipedia content is distributed via cell phones and third party platforms attracting over 7 billion page views and video views in the year 2020.
Health Code is an easy entry point for users to get their e-pass automatically based on health information they filled in. During the pandemic, Health Code facilitated people's efficient movement in and out of public areas nationwide. Within the year, Health Code set a billion users with over 65 billion total visits becoming the most used ePass for verifying health and travel status in China.
Finally, complimentary to our investment in innovation to drive our core businesses, investment in ecosystem is also our strategic focus through investments we support innovation for our partners and investees, which ultimately together better serve users and enterprises.
In consumer Internet, we identify investments, which capture emerging opportunities arising from technological advancements, and user behavior changes. User value and product experiences are top priorities for us. Our key investment areas include content games, FinTech services, ecommerce, auto and education.
In industrial Internet, we seek to build close relationships with value chain players to support the evolution of various industries. Leveraging our technology strength, we assist digital upgrade in sectors such as education, healthcare, transportation, and retail. In that process, our communication and social services can also connect users with more services in convenient and efficient manner.
Our investment principles are to invest in high quality management teams and best in class companies which have deep industry knowhow and core competence in their respective fields. We aim to support the investees innovation while enabling them to grow and operate independently.
Through our investments we do not only nurture, nurture the growth of startups, but also create synergies that are value added to users. An additional benefit of our investment strategy is that we can then focus our internal resources, deep developers, people and bandwidth on driving innovation within our core businesses. This two-pronged strategy has been pivotal in driving sustainable development for the company and the industry as a whole.
Now with that, I'll pass to James to talk about our business review.
James Mitchell
Thank you, Martin. For the fourth quarter of 2020, our total revenue grew 26% year-on-year. VAS represented 50% of our revenue within which online games were 29% and social networks 21%. Online Advertising was 18% and FinTech and business services represented 29% of our revenue.
For Value-Added Services, segment revenue was RMB 67 billion for the fourth quarter, up 28% year-on-year and down 12% quarter-on-quarter. Social network revenue was RMB 28 billion representing 27% year-on-year growth, primarily driven by live streaming services and in-game item sales. Sequentially, revenue growth from digital content services was offset by a revenue decline from in-game item sales.
Total VAS subscription accounts grew 22% year-on-year to 219 million subscriptions. Our video subscriptions increased 17% year-on-year to 123 million subscriptions. We strengthened our market leadership through self commissioned animated series, deepened -- deeper cooperation with channel partners, and then expanded OTT user base. Our music subscriptions grew 40% year-on-year to 56 million subscriptions benefiting from improved user retention and operable strategy.
Our online games revenue increased 29% year-on-year to RMB 39 billion driven by more smartphone game players and a higher paying user ratio. Revenue decreased 6% quarter-on-quarter due to normalized user activity and seasonality. For smartphone games total revenue grew 41% year-on-year to RMB 27 [ph] billion reflecting robust growth from in-house titles including Peacekeeper Elite, Honor of Kings and PUBG Mobile, as well as our new massively multiplayer role playing game, Moonlight Blade Mobile. The PC client games revenue decreased 1% year-on-year to RMB 10 billion as softness of Dungeon & Fighter offset growth from League of Legends and from Valorant.
Focusing on Weixin, Martin has already discussed our Video Account strategy and product, but I will touch briefly on live streaming and video accounts which facilitates real-time one too many interactions. Content creators and brands can use live streaming to engage with users via red packets, co-hosting, and audience dial in. Additionally, Weixin launched the startups feature, allowing users to share their current emotions and thoughts through pictures or videos and connect with likeminded friends, and animated emojis enabled users to express themselves more vividly online.
Moving to QQ, we focused on enhancing interactive experiences within vertical communities. A content oriented communities we introduce the hashtag feature and trending topics within Mini Worlds which resonated the Generation Z set users and increased Mini World data user engagement. For game communities we launch joint promotions and celebrity eSports competitions for games such as Honor of Kings and Call of Duty Mobile.
Users can discuss game related topics within interest groups in Mini Programs, while obtaining endgame incentives. For learning communities, we partnered with educational institutions to offer quiz challenges and question and answer services, fostering a vibrant study environment. Looking at our game activities within China, in battle arena games, Honor of Kings released its biggest ever update in January with new heroes, skins and user interface. We upgraded the game's rendering technology to enhanced visual effects with minimal performance overhead.
For shooting games, Call of Duty Mobile attracts hardcore players with its fast paced and competitive FPS experience. For role playing games, Aurora Studio extended the Moonlight Blade IP from PC to mobile, and the mobile game ranks the top grossing massively multiplayer role playing game on iOS during the fourth quarter.
By the end of 2020, we have distributed over a million switch consoles in China. Pony mentioned that Healthy Gameplay System which helps parents manage younger users in-game play time and spending. During the fourth quarter players aged under 18 years old accounted for 6% of game gross received and players aged under 16 were 3.2%.
Internationally our game revenue rose 43% year-on-year to RMB 9.8 billion. The League of Legends World Championship Finals attracted over 45 million teaching current users, a record high viewership for eSports. League of Legends mobile version of Wild Rift is further expanded the League of Legends franchise user base.
PUBG Mobile ranked as the most popular smartphone game by monthly active users for the second consecutive year, and its flagship tournament was the most viewed eSports competition among all mobile games. We're increasingly seeking to create games with global appeal. By collaborating with renowned console game and animate IPs, we can bring our new mobile games to wider global attention and we're investing in PC and console studios that are leaders in emerging platforms [indiscernible] future nurture fan bases to our platforms.
Moving to online advertising, our advertising revenue was RMB 25 billion in the fourth quarter up 22% year-on-year and up 15% quarter-on-quarter. We experienced increased demand in the education sector, ecommerce platforms and fast moving consumer goods advertisers. Also related ad revenue benefited from a domestic car sales recovery and from consolidation of Bitauto.
Our social and others advertising revenue was RMB 20 billion, up 25% year-on-year and 15% quarter-on-quarter, driven primarily by Moments in our mobile ad network. Moments revenue maintain growth as we enabled performance oriented advertisers to link their ads with their mini programs, so boosting their transactions and sales conversion.
By offering customized channel advertising solutions on mobile ad network will attract more ad spend, especially from external game companies and internet services. In-game ad revenue on mobile ad network more than doubled year-on-year. Our media advertising revenue for the quarter was RMB 4 billion up 8% year-on-year and 19% quarter-on-quarter, reflecting increased video ad revenue and music app monetization.
Looking at FinTech and Business Services, revenue was RMB 38 billion in the fourth quarter up 29% year-on-year and up 16% quarter-on-quarter. Within FinTech services, revenue grew year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter as our payments and wealth management services were increasingly adopted by consumers and merchants. Total payment volume grew healthily year-on-year, driven by more daily active consumers and higher payment frequency and verticals including retail, public services and groceries.
Payment commercial take rates are generally stable. For our wealth management business aggregated customer assets grew robustly year-on-year and looking forward, we'll focus on Investor Education and helping users to identify quality products selected by our independent research team. Within Business Services, we expanded our customer base in key verticals and increased our platforms of service revenue robustly, contributing to a faster year-on-year revenue growth rate in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
We also deployed more on-premises projects during the period. The infrastructure as a service, we developed our Star Lake SA3 service architecture powered by the latest generation AMD EPYC processors. This new architecture provides better AI, security storage and network capabilities with lower energy consumption in comps and Tencent cloud services cost efficiency. Software as a Service Tencent using enterprise version penetrated key accounts in the energy, healthcare and education sectors.
Our conference room solutions, Tencent Meeting Rooms and then Connector, facilitate high quality real-time communication and are compatible with customers existing audio/visual equipment.
And with that, I'll pass to John.
John Lo
Thank you, James. Hello everyone. For the fourth quarter of 2020, total revenue was RMB 133.7 billion, an increase of 26% year-on-year or 7% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 58.9 billion, up 28% year-on-year or 4% quarter-on-quarter. Net other gains was RMB 32.9 billion, this mainly comprised on IFRS adjusted items representing increased valuations of certain investees in social media, ecommerce and online game verticals, as well as net gains on them disposal of certain investees.
Operating profit was RMB 63.7 billion, up 123% year-on-year or 45% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were RMB 2.3 billion, down 19% year-on-year or up 16% quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year decrease reflected lower interest expense as a result of reduced average cost of funds, Q-on-Q increase was mainly driven by foreign exchange losses.
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures was RMB 1.6 billion compared to share of losses for fourth quarter 2019. The year-on-year difference mainly reflected non-IFRS adjusted items of certain associates and improved performance. So then e-commerce and online games associates. On a non-IFRS basis share profit was RMB 2.7 billion for the quarter versus RMB 1.3 billion a year ago. Income tax expense was RMB 3.7 billion and effective tax rate was 5.9% for the quarter.
IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 59.3 billion, up 175% year-on-year or 54% quarter-on-quarter. For the full year of 2020, total revenue was RMB 482.1 billion, up 28%.
Gross profit was RMB 221.5 billion, up 32%. Operating profit was RMB 184.2 billion, up 55%. IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 159.8 billion, up 71% and effective tax rate for the year was 11.1%.
Now I'll share with you our non-IFRS financial figures. For the fourth quarter operating profit was RMB 38.1 billion, up 26% year-on-year or flattish quarter-on-quarter. Net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 33.2 billion, up 30% year-on-year or 3% quarter-on-quarter. For the full year of 2020, operating profit was RMB 149.4 billion, up 30%. Net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 122.7 billion, up 30%.
Moving on to segment gross margins, gross margin for value-added services was 51.5%, up 1.4 percentage points year-on-year or down 1.1 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. On a year-on-year basis, we continue to benefit from revenue growth of higher margin self developed smartphone games, sequentially margin decrease was primarily driven by revenue mix shift from high margin PC client games to lower margin digital content services.
Gross Margin for online advertising was 53.3% down 1 percentage point year-on-year or 2.4 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Year-on-year decrease was due to higher revenue contributions for mobile and network business which carries lower margin. Sequentially margin increase reflected lower related content costs due to delays of sports event broadcast.
Gross Margin for FinTech and Business Services was 28.5%, up slightly year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. For the full year of 2020, VAS gross margin increased 1.1 percentage points to 54.1%. Over online advertising gross margin increased 2.4 percentage points to 51.4%. Gross Margin for FinTech and Business Services increased 1.1 percentage points to 28.3%.
On operating expenses, selling and marketing expenses were RMB 10 billion, up 49% year-on-year or 12% quarter-on-quarter as a percentage of revenues. Selling and marketing expenses represented 7.5% for the quarter. Both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year increase reflected greater marketing spend on online games, business services, and digital content services, including those associated with consolidation impact of Bitauto and HUYA.
G&A expenses were RMB 19.8 billion, up 24% year-on-year and 15% quarter-on-quarter, mainly reflected greater R&D and sales force. Within G&A R&D expenses was RMB 11.2 billion up 26% year-on-year or 13% quarter-on-quarter. G&A and R&D represented 14.8% and 8.4% of revenues respectively. As of quarter end, we had approximately 86,000 employees up 37% year-on-year or 11% quarter-over-quarter.
For the full year of 2020, selling and marketing expense was RMB 33.8 billion up 58% represented 7% of revenues. The increased primarily reflected greater marketing spend for online games and recent consolidations, as well as marketing spend to support long term strategic initiatives including short term video, crowd based healthcare solutions, online education and remote work.
Our R&D expense was RMB 39 billion up 28% and represented 8.1% of revenues. G&A expenses excluding R&D was RMB 28.6 billion up 24% and represented 5.9% of revenues. For the fourth quarter 2020, gross margin was 44% and largely stable year-on-year or down 1.2 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Sequential decrease reflected lower VAS gross margin compared to the previous quarter.
Non-IFRS operating margin was 28.5%, largely stable year-on-year or down 1.9 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net margin was 25.8% largely stable year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. For the full year 2020, gross margin was 46%, up 1.6 percentage points, non-IFRS operating margin and net margin were 31% and 26.3% respectively. Both remain broadly stable.
Let's move on to earnings per share and annual dividends. For 2020, on IFRS basis, basic EPS was RMB 16.844 and diluted EPS was RMB 16.523. Non-IFRS basic EPS was RMB 12.934 and EPS was RMB 12.689. Subject to the approval of the shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 of May, 2021, we are proposing an annual dividend of HK$ 1.6 per share payable to shareholders on the 7th of June, 2021. This represents an increase of 33.3% from last year.
Finally, total CapEx was RMB 9.7 billion down 43% year-on-year or up to 11% quarter-on-quarter. Operating CapEx increased by 13% year-on-year to RMB 8 billion as we continue to ramp up the investment in servers and network equipment to open our business growth. Nonoperating CapEx decrease 83% year-on-year to RMB 1.6 billion mainly due to higher base in fourth quarter 2019 for office land purchase.
Free cash flow was RMB 27.7 billion, down 11% year-on-year or down 2% quarter-on-quarter. Net cash position was at RMB 11.1 billion which increased sequentially due to free cash flow generation and foreign exchange effects partially offset by net cash outflow for M&A activities. Fair value of our shareholdings and listed investees, excluding subsidiaries was approximately RMB 1.2 trillion or US$ 185 billion at the end of the year.
Thank you. We'll now open the floor for questions.
Wendy Huang
Operator, we will take one main question and one follow-up question each time please, invite the first question. Thank you. Operator?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Thank you. Your first question comes from Robin Zhu from Berns