Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY) Q3 2020 Earnings Conference Call November 12, 2020  7:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Wendy Huang - IR 
Pony Ma - Chairman and CEO
Martin Lau - President 
James Mitchell - Chief Strategy Officer 
John Lo - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Kenneth Fong - Credit Suisse
Alex Yao - JPMorgan
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley
John Choi - Daiwa
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Thomas Chong - Jefferies
Gregory Zhao - Barclays
William Packer - Exane BNP Paribas
Saiyi He - Huatai Securities
Operator
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tencent Holdings Limited 2020 Third Quarter Results Announcement Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Ms. Wendy Huang from Tencent. Please go ahead, Ms. Huang.
Wendy Huang
Good evening. Welcome to our third quarter 2020 results conference call. I'm Wendy Huang from Tencent IR team.
Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements, which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent.
This presentation also contains some unaudited non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures of the company's financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. Non-IFRS measures are intended to reflect our core earnings by excluding certain onetime and/or noncash items.
For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosure documents on the IR section of our website.
Let me introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick off with a short overview. President, Martin Lau, and Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will provide a business review. Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial review before we open the floor for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma
Thank you, Wendy. Good evening. Thank you for joining us tonight. This quarter marked the second anniversary of our strategic organization upgrade, which was intended to enhance our strength in consumer Internet and extend our presence to industrial industry -- Internet. While the upgrade was designed to bear fruit over the long run, we are already seeing initial benefits in areas such as consolidating our advertising services, rejuvenating our product and content platforms, growing our cloud and SaaS businesses and building an internal open source code base.
In the face of public healthy, macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges, we will seek to sharpen our focus, innovate and collaborate with our partners in order to better serve our users, customers and the society at large.
Now I will highlight the results we achieved in the third quarter of 2020.
Total revenue was RMB 125 billion, up 29% year-on-year and 9% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 57 billion, up 33% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Our non-IFRS operating profit was RMB 38 billion, up 34% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 32 billion, up 32% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter.
Moving to our online platforms. In social, combined MAU of Weixin and WeChat was 1.2 billion. Smart devices MAU of QQ was 617 million. In games, we expand our leadership via extended popularity of established franchises and success of new release in both China and international markets. In media, video and music subscriptions increased as we released the top-tier content and added songs to the paid library. In FinTech, commercial payment transactions maintained robust growth, and our wealth management platform expanded its aggregated customer assets. In public cloud, we saw a rising demand for PaaS solution and upgrade our SaaS enterprise productivity to capture opportunities in emerging sectors. In utilities, we maintained our industry leadership in mobile security and mobile browser in China.
I will invite Martin and James to discuss business review.
Martin Lau
Thank you, Pony. Good evening and good morning.
For the third quarter of 2020, our total revenue grew 29% year-on-year. VAS represented 56% of our total revenue, within which social networks was 23% and online games was 33%. Online Advertising was 17% of total revenue. FinTech and Business Services represented 26% of our total revenue.
For value-added services, segment revenue was RMB 70 billion in the third quarter, up 38% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter. Social networks revenue was RMB 28 billion, representing 29% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter growth, mainly driven by in-game item sales and live streaming services.
Total VAS subscriptions grew 25% year-on-year to 213 million, benefiting from digital content subscriptions. Total video subscriptions increased 20% year-on-year to 120 million primarily due to our popular drama and animated series, such as Nothing But Thirty and The Land of Warriors Season 3.
We successfully converted trial users acquired during summer promotions to regular video subscribers. Total music subscriptions grew 46% year-on-year to 52 million on an expanded paid library and a higher retention rate.
Online games revenue increased 45% year-on-year and 8% quarter-on-quarter to RMB 41 billion driven by growth in paying users and ARPU. Total smartphone games revenue grew 61% year-on-year to RMB 39 billion, benefiting from robust growth of existing titles as well as recognition of deferred revenue from the stay-at-home period. Sequentially, revenue grew 9%, but cash receipts slightly decreased as users returned to their offices and in-game activities normalized.
PC client games revenue was stable year-on-year at RMB 12 billion as increased revenue from League of Legends globally and new game Valorant in Western markets offset decreased revenue from Dungeon & Fighter in China. Revenue increased 7% quarter-on-quarter due to CrossFire and full quarter contribution from Valorant.
Now I'll talk more about our social networks. For Weixin, we are focused on delivering convenience and efficiency for users. To facilitate access to high-frequency services within the Weixin Pay interface, we grouped the list of services into 4 key verticals, namely: financial services, daily services, transportation & travel as well as shopping & entertainment. For the travel & transportation vertical, we expanded geographic coverage of mobility services to 10 provinces and municipalities in China. Mobility services connect auto owners with car services, such as carwashes and car insurance, as well as general users with public transportation services, including transit codes and bus schedule checking.
To enhance the efficiency of content and service delivery, we enabled more cross-referencing within Weixin properties. For example, in a check box, users can press to search words and phrases that appear in messages, after which Weixin will provide related content and services from Mini Programs, Official Accounts, Moments and other sources. In Moments, whenever users create hashtags and posts, readers of the posts who click these hashtags can then see related content from Official Accounts, video feeds and H5 pages.
Moving on to QQ. We keep on creating new experiences to strengthen stickiness of the youth community on the QQ platform. We enable more shared experiences among young users. For example, we allow them to watch Tencent Video together while video chatting, to compete with friends in battle mode Mini Games and to co-edit classwork via Tencent Docs. We have been testing Mini World, a video and image feed service within QQ, since April. Contributors within Mini World can create images and videos shared beyond their existing friend circle, and users can explore content through recommendation. Mini World resonates well with young audience and has enjoyed increasing popularity. These initiatives and growing adoption of real-time video chatting drove daily time spent per user within QQ up by a teens percentage year-on-year.
Now turning to our gaming business. For smartphone games, we leveraged our industry expertise, user insight and execution to deliver engaging experiences to large-scale audiences, enhancing the vitality and longevity of our existing titles, including blockbusters as well as the lesser known games. We recently celebrated the fifth anniversary of Honour of Kings, which exceeded 100 million average DAU for the first 10 months of 2020. We have expanded Honour of King's user base through constant innovation, user-centric operation and robust technology infrastructure. We're realizing the potential of its IP by developing new games, animated series and a live-action drama series.
Investors are quite familiar with titles such as Honour of Kings and Peacekeeper Elite, but we applied similar capabilities to lesser known, vertically specialized titles as well. For example, our self-developed game, Naruto Mobile, despite being released 4 years ago has recently achieved all-time high in DAU and revenue driven by operational enhancements we have made over the years, such as an improved PvP mode. Naruto Mobile is now one of the most popular and revenue generative games in the fighting genre in China.
With respect to key PC games, we continue to view the sector fairly favorably. While the PC game market has not experienced the same revenue growth as the mobile game market, PC games are highly influential. There is plenty of room for IP and product innovation within the PC platform to drive direct revenue contributions or broader platform benefits. For example, League of Legends launched a major thematic event, Spirit Blossom Festival, in the quarter, coordinating the release of new champions, skins and event pass, which was popular both with users as well as revenue generative. The recent League of Legends World Championship in Shanghai attracted a large and sizable global audience, too.
We adapted CrossFire into a highly-rated drama series and released a tied-in new game mode and skins, reviving the game's popularity and monetization. In addition, new game Valorant has become a breakout hit in the tactical shooter genre in Western markets with a wide audience on Twitch.
Besides sustaining and expanding existing game success, we continue releasing impactful, new games. Moonlight Blade Mobile, a self-developed game based on the renowned novel, became the most successful MMORPG launched in China this year by iOS Grossing. League of Legends Wild Rift, a mobile battle arena game based on LL IP, is currently among the most downloaded mobile games across its available markets in Asia.
With that, I'll pass on to James to talk about the rest of the business review.
James Mitchell
Thank you, Martin. Moving on to advertising, revenue increased year-on-year and 15% quarter-on-quarter to RMB 21 billion. We believe the China advertising has now largely recovered from the COVID-19 shock. Advertising categories that have been experiencing rapid secular growth, such as education, Internet services and e-commerce, continued to grow quickly year-on-year on our platform during the third quarter. Ad spend from some cyclical advertising categories, such as automobiles and real estate, picked up year-on-year. And certain categories where ad spend dipped due to COVID, such as financial services and consumer staples, were flattish year-on-year in the quarter.
Internally, we executed on initiatives, including upgrading our algorithmic ad buying solutions, which delivered higher conversion for advertisers and attracted increased share of budgets towards our services. We also provided incremental advertising inventory in casual game apps, eSports events and live streaming platforms.
For social and others advertising, Weixin properties achieved solid revenue growth year-on-year driven by higher impressions and eCPM. Our mobile ad network revenue grew rapidly year-on-year as advertisers responded favorably to video formats such as our rewarded video ads.
For media advertising, after 4 quarters of steep year-on-year revenue declines, the rate of revenue decrease moderated to minus 1% year-on-year. We captured sponsorship advertising demand via our self-commissioned variety shows such as The Coming One Season 4 and drama series such as Nothing But Thirty. We upgraded the staff screen ads in Tencent Video driving higher eCPMs and sequential revenue growth for our video advertising service.
Looking now at FinTech and Business Services. Segment revenue was RMB 33 billion, up 24% year-on-year and up 11% quarter-on-quarter. FinTech services revenue grew healthily year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter, led by the continued robust expansion of our commercial payments and wealth management businesses, while our social payments and micro-lending activities grew at more moderate rates.
For payment services, growth momentum continued through the quarter, and total payment volume increased over 30% year-on-year. Our commercial payment daily active users and spending per user both increased at a rapid rate. Online transaction growth benefited from an accelerated shift from off-line to online purchases due to the pandemic as well as greater usage of Mini Programs for transactions in categories such as groceries and apparel. Payment operating margins remained stable.
For our wealth management business, the number of active customers increased over 50% year-on-year, driving a similar growth rate in aggregate customer assets.
The Business Services year-on-year revenue growth rate slowed down due to the lingering impact from the pandemic on project deployment and new contract sign-ups as well as nonrecurring adjustments to certain infrastructure as a service contracts. However, we saw rising demand for platform as a service, in particular security PaaS, from the financial, health care and Internet service clients.
During the period, we upgraded our Software-as-a-Service enterprise productivity toolkit, which consists of 3 signature products, WeCom, Tencent Meeting and Tencent Docs. Customers increasingly adopt WeCom, previously known as Enterprise Weixin, for workplace communication and management. Despite most people returning to their workplaces, WeCom's DAU grew over 100% year-on-year during the quarter. Tencent Meeting now has over 100 million registered users. In September, we released an enterprise version of Tencent Meeting to meet growing needs for customization. We integrated Tencent Docs, our cloud-based document processing tool, with other Tencent products, including QQ, QQ Browser and our customer relationship management SaaS, to further expand its use cases.
And with that, I'll pass to John to go through the financials.
John Lo
Thank you, James. For the third quarter, total revenue was RMB 125.4 billion, increasing 29% year-on-year or 9% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 56.6 billion, up 33% year-on-year or 6% quarter-on-quarter. Net other gains was RMB 11.6 billion. This was mainly due to non-IFRS adjusted items, representing increased valuations of certain investees in verticals, such as electric vehicle, online games and local services, as well as net gains on deemed disposal of certain investees.
Operating profit was RMB 44 billion, up 70% year-on-year or 12% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were RMB 1.9 billion, up 11% year-on-year or down 3% quarter-on-quarter. Year-on-year increase reflected recognition of foreign exchange loss during the quarter versus the foreign exchange gain a year ago. Q-on-Q remained broadly stable.
Share of profit of associates and joint venture was RMB 2.6 billion. Both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter increase benefited from enhanced performance of certain investees in verticals such as e-commerce and online games. Year-on-year growth also reflected non-IFRS adjustment items of certain associates.
On a non-IFRS basis, we recorded share of profit of RMB 3.2 billion for the quarter.
Income tax expense was RMB 5.7 billion for quarter 3 2020, and the effective tax rate was 4.9%.
IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 38.5 billion, up 89% year-on-year or 16% quarter-on-quarter.
Diluted EPS was RMB 3.964, up 86% year-on-year or 15% quarter-on-quarter.
Now I'll share with you some of our non-IFRS financial figures. For the third quarter, operating profit was RMB 38.1 billion, up 34% year-on-year or 1% quarter-on-quarter. Net profit after NCI was RMB 32.3 billion, up 32% year-on-year or 7% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 3.314, up 30% year-on-year or 6% quarter-on-quarter.
Moving to segment gross margins. Gross margin for VAS was 52.6%, slightly up 0.8 percentage point year-on-year or down 1.1 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. On a year-on-year basis, we continue to benefit from the mix shift to higher-margin, self-developed smartphone games. Sequentially, VAS margin decreased due to greater content costs associated with our online video business.
Gross margin for Online Advertising was 50.9%, up 21 -- up 2.1 percentage points year-on-year and was stable quarter-on-quarter. Year-on-year increase was mainly contributed by the industry-wide exemption of cultural construction fee for this year.
Gross margin for FinTech and Business Services was 27.9%, largely stable year-on-year or down 1 percentage point quarter-on-quarter. Sequential decrease was mainly due to greater channel costs for payment-related services as offline merchants resumed their businesses amid the pandemic.
On operating expenses, selling and marketing expenses were RMB 8.9 billion, up 56% year-on-year or 15% quarter-on-quarter. On a year-on-year basis, marketing spending increased particularly on online games, Weixin as well as Business Services. Sequential increase was primarily driven by online games and Business Services. As a percentage of revenues, selling and marketing expense was 7.1% for the quarter.
G&A expenses were RMB 17.2 billion, up 27% year-on-year or 4% quarter-on-quarter mainly due to greater R&D and staff costs. Within G&A, R&D expenses were RMB 9.9 billion, up 25% year-on-year or stable quarter-on-quarter. G&A and R&D represented 13.7% and 7.9% of revenues, respectively. As at quarter-end, we had approximately 77,600 employees, up 27% year-on-year or 10% quarter-on-quarter.
For the third quarter 2020, gross margin was 45.2%, up 1.5 percentage points year-on-year or down 1.1 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. On a year-on-year basis, segment gross margin improvement flowed through the increased blended gross margin in particular from value-added services. Sequentially, margin decreased, mainly reflecting lower VAS gross margin compared to the last quarter.
Non-IFRS operating margin was 30.4%, up 1 percentage point year-on-year or down 2.4 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net margin was 26.6%, up 0.8 percentage point year-on-year or down 0.6 percentage point quarter-on-quarter.
Finally, let me share with you several key financial metrics before we close our remarks. Total CapEx was RMB 8.7 billion, up 31% year-on-year or down 8% quarter-on-quarter. Operating CapEx increased by 34% year-on-year to RMB 7.8 billion, reflecting more expenditures on servers and network equipment to open our business growth. Nonoperating CapEx increased 4% year-on-year to RMB 901 million, driven by planning on data centers constructions.
For the current quarter, free cash flow was RMB 28.1 billion, broadly stable both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. Net cash position was at RMB 6.4 billion, which decreased sequentially due to payments for M&A initiatives, partly offset by operating cash flow generation.
Fair value of our shareholdings in listed investees, excluding subsidiaries, was approximately RMB 891 billion or USD 131 billion as at the end of the quarter compared to RMB 726 billion or USD 103 billion last quarter. Thank you.
Wendy Huang
Thank you, John. Operator, let's open the floor for questions now.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Kenneth Fong from Credit Suisse.
Kenneth Fong
Congratulation on a very strong set of results. I have 2 questions on the game, please. So on game, we noticed that recent new games like Genshin Impact, Rise of Kingdoms are launching through some like game community platform like Bili and TapTap to reach out to more like a target user base to avoid a high revenue sharing of Android. I remember that last year, we said we have been negotiating with the Android platform to lower the channel fee on a game-by-game basis. Do you think the successful launch of these recent titles as well as the more like a mobile cloud platform like HUYA or Yowa would open us up with more game distribution channel and that would tilt the negotiation power towards us as a major game developer? So in the other words, we will see more rooms for margin improvement by lowering the channel fee over time?
James Mitchell
Thank you for that question. So we had commented in the past that we felt the game industry economics were not ideal for the game studios and that in many cases, the channels were capturing a bigger share of the profits than the studios themselves. And we're a big enough company that we can survive that, but there are many smaller companies which couldn't survive. And so we have been advocates of resetting the revenue share with the channels to more reasonable levels.
And as you observed, there's a number of midsized game studios in China that have recently bypassed some of the traditional channels altogether and yet still brought their games to a high degree of popularity, which is impressive and commendable.
For our part, as you know, we have been in the process of negotiating the kind of revenue shares to what we think are more sustainable levels, and that has and will continue to flow through over time into our game margins.
We believe that there's room for many different participants to be successful, including small studios, large studios as well as traditional channels and new channels. And so the fact that there are these different players who experiment with different channels, it's healthy for the industry. But as far as we ourselves are concerned, we have a good relationship with the big traditional channels, and following some of the adjustments to the relationships with those big channels, we think that we're in a sort of healthy and sustainable position.
Martin Lau
And one thing I do want to add is I think it's not just in terms of one figure, right, in terms of the revenue share. I think the important thing is actually structuring in such a way that it's a fair relationship. At the same time, the channel is actually incentivized to provide value, right? And so I think that's the more important and the slight intricate part of a negotiation. For example, if you really can deliver a promotion of new users, that's highly valued. If somebody else actually sort of is signing up users through other channels but just going through an app store, then I think the value will be sort of lower.
So I think we're moving to an industry in which there's going to be a more delicate division of the value brought by different parties. And I think overall then, it's going to be fairer economics and it's going to be more healthy for everybody.
Kenneth Fong
My follow-up question is on the overseas game. So what is the revenue contribution by percentage now? And except for like U.S., Japan, which our Chinese operator have been focusing on, so which market you see have the biggest potential next? And then what are the challenge that we face so far that prevent us from replicating our success into these countries? Sure.
James Mitchell
Sure. So we don't disclose that percentage on a quarter-by-quarter basis. But I believe the last quarter where we gave a point figure, it was the fourth quarter of last year when we disclosed 23% of our games segment revenue was international. And because on the one hand our international games have progressed very well in the last 9 months, but, on the other hand, our domestic game business is also growing nicely, the ratio in the third quarter was very similar to the ratio in the fourth quarter last year.
In terms of geographies then, you -- the global game business is truly global, and that's certainly true of our portfolio, meaning that aside from the U.S. and Japan and China, which you sort of called out, there are very sizable game markets in other regions, and we have certain games that clearly overperform in certain markets. And so for example, the Supercell and Mini Games tend to overperform in Continental Europe; League of Legends and Brawl Stars, for example, have overperformed in Korea, the big market; and PUBG Mobile has overperformed in certain Middle East and in emerging markets; and Call of Duty Mobile has overperformed in South America.
So we're actually quite fortunate in that with the range of games in and around our portfolio, we have experience now of successful publishing or cooperation in many different geographies.
Kenneth Fong
Got it. Very clear. Congrats again.
Martin Lau
Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Alex Yao from JPMorgan.
Alex Yao
Congratulations on a strong quarter. My question is regarding the change in the operating environment due to the policy introduction in the past 1 to 2 weeks, including both online micro lenders and the guideline for antitrust. What are the potential change in operation that you guys are likely to introduce in light of those policy introductions?
And my follow-up question is, can you give us an update on the FinTech growth strategy in light of this regulatory environment change?
Martin Lau
Well, thank you for your question. I think with respect to FinTech, I think the answer is that we'll be -- there will not be a lot of changes in our strategy. I think you'll -- what we have been doing is steadily driving our FinTech business, and this will be a strategy that we will continue.
If you look at the principles that we have adhered to in our FinTech business, number one is really compliance with the regulations, and this is something that we have done very methodically in the past.
And if you look at the micro loan regulation, it actually does not really impact our flagship micro loan service, WeiLiDai, because WeiLiDai is actually offered by WeBank, which is a fully licensed bank, and it has been in full compliance with the banking regulations, which is the regulated part of the entire industry.
We have a lot of respect for risk management, and we prudently manage risk. And that includes deliberately controlling the scale of some of our financial products, including loans, wealth management products and insurance, so that we optimize for quality rather than just going for scale.
We focus on collaborating with industry partners within the financial industry. And for example, in the micro loan business, we actually work with more than 60 banks so that we actually bring in our expertise in originating loans. But at the same time, we actually work with them so that they bring in their expertise to the business and together we have a win-win outcome.
I think we also put a lot of focus on diversified revenue source. If you look at our revenue, it's actually quite diversified between payment and the lending business as well as wealth management and the emerging product under insurance.
And finally, I would say we focus a lot on creating a unique value for users as well as for our industry partners. We bring in technology solutions so that we reduce the frictional cost, we increase engagement for our industry partners with the users. And as a result, we have been growing our FinTech business in measured speeds. And also, we control the size while, at the same time, developing our capabilities and improving our value proposition for both our users and industry partners.
So if you look at this entire strategy, I think it's -- it actually fits very well with the credit -- regulatory environment, and I think we will be steadily continuing driving our FinTech business forward.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Gary Yu from Morgan Stanley.
Gary Yu
Congratulation on the strong set of results. I have one question related to the gaming business. Given the fact that we are currently under a normalization of COVID from first half, which probably may see some slowdown in momentum, but then, at the same time, we are also seeing quite strong in terms of new games in the pipeline, so how should we look at the sustainability of the gaming revenue growth momentum going forward particularly when we go into 2021?
James Mitchell
Thank you for the congratulations and the questions. So we mentioned in the prepared remarks that while our reported revenue from games increased quarter-on-quarter, that, to some extent, reflects the very conservative deferral and amortization policy of cash receipts. So during the third quarter, we saw sort of the full benefit of the surge in cash receipts that we experienced in the first half of 2020. However, our cash receipts did decline slightly quarter-on-quarter.
So looking at the third quarter, we've already experienced a degree of normalization in the cash receipts, and we assume that, that will continue going forward with implications for the rate of growth of the reported revenue as well over time.
Now more broadly, I would say that we remain optimistic about the game business on a short- and medium- and long-term perspective because, first of all, we continue to enhance our live operations. And as we talked about in the prepared remarks, I think that many investors are now aware of some of the live operations initiatives we've put into our really flagship, our highest-profile games like Honour of Kings, but they may be less aware of the extent to which we're also deploying those in more vertical niche or genre games such as Naruto. So that's in terms of live operations in existing games.
And then in terms of new games, we have a number of very high-profile, widely discussed titles in the pipeline, some of which already have been developed and already have that BanHao and are pending launch, such as D&F Mobile and Call of Duty Mobile; some of which have been developed and released in other markets but pending a BanHao and launch in China such as Wild Rift and Valorant; and then a large number of games, both own IP and licensed IP, from our big inter