Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY) Q2 2020 Results Earnings Conference Call August 12, 2020  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Wendy Huang - Investor Relations
Pony Ma - Co-Founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Martin Lau - President & Executive Director
James Mitchell - Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Executive Vice President
John Lo - Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
John Choi - Daiwa Capital Markets
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Alex Yao - JPMorgan
Alicia Yap - Citigroup
William Packer - Exane BNP Paribas
Jerry Liu - UBS
Binnie Wong - HSBC
Piyush Mubayi - Goldman Sachs
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley
Eddie Leung - Bank of America
Operator
Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Tencent Holdings Limited 2020 Second Quarter and Interim Results Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your host today, Ms. Wendy Huang from Tencent. Please go ahead, Ms. Huang.
Wendy Huang
Thank you. Good evening. Welcome to our 2020 second quarter and interim results conference call. I’m Wendy Huang from Tencent IR team. Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about the general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent.
This presentation also contains some unaudited and non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures of the company’s financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. Non-IFRS measures are intended to reflect our core earnings by excluding certain one-time and/or non-cash items. For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosure documents on the IR section of our website.
Let me introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick off with a short overview. President, Martin Lau and Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will provide a business overview. Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial review before we open the floor for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma
Okay. Thank you, Wendy. Good evening. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Since the beginning of this year, the COVID-19 pandemic has swept the world, disrupting our daily work and life routines. During this challenging time, we utilized our platforms and technologies to help users adapt to the new normal via online tools, to support enterprises in conducting digital upgrades, and to broadly contribute to economic recovery. And now I will highlight the result we achieved in the second quarter of 2020.
Total revenue was RMB 115 billion, up 29% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 53 billion, up 36% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter. Our non-IFRS operating profit was RMB 38 billion, up 38% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 30 billion, up 28% year-on-year and 11% quarter-on-quarter.
Moving to our online platforms, in social, combined MAU of Weixin and WeChat increased 6% year-on-year to 1.21 billion. Just for those who may not be familiar with the distinction between Weixin and WeChat, they are two different products. Weixin is a chat tool that serves users in the mainland of China, whereas WeChat is a sister product which serves users outside of the mainland of China.
In smart devices, MAU of QQ was 648 million. In games, we expand our leadership via expanded popularity of established franchise and success of new release in both China and international markets. In media, video and music subscriptions increased as we released top-tier content and added songs to the paid library.
In FinTech, commercial payment transactions resumed growth and our wealth management platform expanded its aggregated customer assets. Leveraging our broad user base, we assisted SMEs digital upgrades and contributed to economic recovery. In cloud, we signed up a large contract in key verticals and captured opportunities in emerging sectors. In utilities, we maintain our industry leadership in mobile security, mobile browser and [ph] endless apps in China.
I will invite Martin and James to discuss the business review.
Martin Lau
Thank you, Pony, and good evening, and good morning to everybody on the call. For the second quarter of 2020, our total revenue grew 29% year-on-year. Value Added Services represented 57% of our total revenue, within which social networks was 23% and online games was 34%. Online Advertising was 16% of total revenue. FinTech and Business Services represented 26% of our total revenue.
Moving into more granularity for Value Added Services, segment revenue was RMB 65 billion in the second quarter, up 35% year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter. Within Value Added Services, social networks revenue was RMB 26.7 billion, increasing 29% year-on-year, mainly driven by more subscriptions for animated series and music as well as in-game item sales. The consolidation of HUYA contributed to both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter revenue growth as well.
Total VAS subscriptions increased 20% year-on-year to 203 million. Video subscriptions increased 18% year-on-year to 114 million, mainly due to the success of animated series and drama series such as The Land of Warriors Season 3 and a new season of Candle in the Tomb: The Lost Caverns. Music subscriptions rose 52% year-on-year to 47 million as we included more songs in the paid library. Online games revenue grew 40% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter to RMB 38.3 billion, driven by mainly smartphone games.
Total smartphone games revenue increased 62% year-on-year to RMB 36 billion. The strong performance primarily flowed from our key titles in China and international markets and the release of deferred revenue generated in previous periods, including the COVID lockdown period. The growth also benefited from the low base of Peacekeeper Elite in the same quarter last year, which was launched in May 2019, and from the financial consolidation of Supercell, which happened October 2019. PC client games revenue decreased 7% year-on-year to RMB 10.9 billion due to soft DnF and CrossFire performance, offsetting increased revenue from League of Legends.
Moving on to social networks, we released during the quarter update for Weixin to enhance features and functionalities for communication, content and services. On communication, users can virtually tap their friends via Tickle, which has enabled many creative expressions. The addition of live broadcast function in groups facilitate various vertical use cases such as online education. Daily messages grew both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.
On content, we upgraded Official Accounts video publishing capabilities, strengthening our recommendation algorithm and released new content aggregation tools. These initiatives enabled more efficient content delivery and revitalized content consumption in the Official Accounts. As a result, Official Accounts page views increased year-on-year during the first half of 2020, rebounding after three years of consecutive declines.
As for services, we launched a free and easy-to-use toolkit to help SMEs, especially long-tail merchants, build and operate Mini Stores, empowering them with functions such as order management, after-sales services and live broadcast. In QQ, we enriched features for users to stay together online while they are physically apart. Users can initiate online parties and play AI-empowered social games in video chat environment. To engage the expanding fan base for Anime, Comics, Games and Novel content, we rolled out customizable comic stickers within QQ chats and strengthened content offerings through popular ACGN-related Mini Programs. All these help us to make QQ continue to be front and center with the young users.
For games, during the quarter, player activity in China normalized downwards versus the first quarter as users returns to offices. However, user time spent on smartphone games in China increased year-on-year, suggesting that the work-from-home period has structurally widened appeal of playing games. Internationally, our MAU increased significantly, as many users connected with their colleagues and classmates via online games during the stay-at-home period. Two new smartphone games and one new PC games also contributed to our international MAU growth.
Our flagship titles maintained a high cadence of quality content updates, including new game modes, virtual items and graphics upgrades, specifically, Honour of Kings motivated users to play more matches with extra rewards which deepens user engagement during its annual Give Me Five festival. We also released high-quality skins for its well-known [ph] Three Kingdom Heroes (00:10:51). Peacekeeper Elite celebrated its first anniversary with new content and game modes to enhance the competitive game experience. In a crossover promotion in July, we launched appealing Tesla-branded car skins in the game which gained widespread popularity.
For new releases, Supercell’s Brawl Stars in China was especially well received, as players enjoyed its easy-to-learn, yet competitive game play. It topped the iOS China Download Chart in June, extending Brawl Stars’ global leadership in the fast-paced 3v3 MOBA genre. In recent years, we have achieved significant success in game development with continued strength in several key structural factors which are critical for developing and operating highly successful games.
Firstly, our homegrown and international flagship game studios have proven track record in creating category leading games, especially on smartphones. We established 17 longstanding franchises, which have each individually exceeded 10 million daily active users in their operating histories. Studios develop content with a high degree of autonomy, while leveraging Tencent’s publishing resources. Their capabilities in innovating attractive core game play, creating immersive storylines and releasing engaging updates are vital in sustaining long-term success.
Secondly, our studios are early adopters of cutting-edge technologies. Tencent’s back-end infrastructure is designed to support a massive number of players concurrently. We deploy industry leading game engine and AI-empowered tools to shorten development lead time and provide unique game experiences. For example, we applied our proprietary technology in Honour of Kings WuKong AI challenge, which attracted over 50 million players to play against the AI.
We constantly upgrade our anti-cheat system to foster fair competition which is crucial for game play and especially eSports tournaments. And we collaborate with external IP and nurture internal IPs to enrich content and enhance game longevity. We create popular narratives that tie into well-known literature, anime and famous characters such as Moonlight Blade, Naruto and Pokémon’s Pikachu. We expand own IP influence through cross-media adaptation, leveraging our large media platforms. Looking forward, we’re committed to investing in talent, technologies and IPs to strengthen our leadership in game development.
Now, I’ll pass on to James.
James Mitchell
Thank you, Martin. Turning to Online Advertising, overall, our ad revenue grew 13% year-on-year, which we believe was an above-market rate to RMB 18.6 billion. Sequentially, revenue grew 5%, a little bit slower than our normal second quarter seasonal upturn, because ad spent by the games and Internet services categories normalized downwards on less traffic during the second quarter after surging due to abnormally high traffic in the work-from-home period during the first quarter. However, we diversified our advertiser industry breadth, as categories such as e-commerce and education increased investment for their June 18 promotional campaigns and summer courses, and categories such as automobile and consumer electronics marketed more aggressively with us as consumption recovered.
To reinforce our long-term competitiveness, we launched a new integrated ad platform, enabling advertisers to more efficiently place ads across all of our inventories, including our mobile ad network. This new platform should also increase bidding efficiency and provide smarter targeting for advertisers.
For social and others advertising, Weixin properties, particularly Moments, saw rapid ad impressions growth, while our mobile advertising network experienced higher eCPMs, as video advertisements revenue contribution increased from a single-digit percentage a year-ago to over 40% in this quarter. We believe the Weixin ecosystem is redefining China online advertising by enabling advertisers to effectively channel online, social and offline traffic to their own private domains such as Official Accounts and Mini Programs, with the result that our advertisers are effectively investing in long-term and loyal customer relationships, not just purchasing one-time transactions.
For media advertising, revenue declined year-on-year due to weak demand from brand advertisers and the delayed production and release of certain variety shows and drama series during the second quarter. However, subsequent to the quarter-end and helped by popular drama series Nothing But Thirty, Tencent Video’s traffic has materially improved, which we think testifies to the resilience of our long-form video platform.
Looking at FinTech and Business Services, segment revenue was RMB 29.8 billion, up 30% year-on-year and up 13% quarter-on-quarter. Within FinTech services, revenue grew year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter, mainly driven by increasing user base and business scale, as consumption rebounded on people returning to their places of work. Our service ecosystem, including payment solutions and business management tools, provides offline merchants an efficient path to digitally upgrade themselves and to access customers and settle transactions via mobile phones.
During the quarter, merchant demand for our payment solutions stepped up, especially from categories such as retail and restaurants. As a result, our commercial payment number of average daily transactions and value per transaction each increased year-on-year, rebounding robustly from the COVID-19 impact in the first quarter. For our wealth management business, aggregated customer assets and the number of active customers rose rapidly year-on-year, as more customers came to appreciate the convenience of managing their cash through our secure and well-curated platform.
Within Business Services, revenue expanded both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter, as cloud services consumption by Internet companies in the public sector increased. Although offline project deployment has not fully resumed its normal pace, reflecting the lingering impact from COVID-19, we have seen growing demand in industries, including financial services, the public sector, healthcare and education. We strengthened our back-end infrastructure capabilities by adopting more custom-made equipment, and we’re building and expanding more of our own hyperscale data centers.
And I’ll now pass it to John.
John Lo
Thank you, James. For the second quarter of 2020, total revenue was RMB 114.9 billion, up 29% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 53.2 billion, up 36% year-on-year or 1% quarter-on-quarter.
Net other gains was RMB 8.6 billion, more than double year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. This mainly comprised non-IFRS adjustment items, including net gains on deemed disposal of certain investees in verticals such as e-commerce, live broadcast services and online games, as well as net fair value gains resulting from increased valuations of investees. Such gains were partly offset by impairment provisions for goodwill at China Literature and against certain investee companies.
Operating profit was RMB 39.3 billion, up 43% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were at RMB 2 billion, stable year-on-year and up 19% quarter-on-quarter. The quarter-on-quarter increase was primarily due to the recognition of foreign exchange losses for the second quarter 2020 compared to a ForEx gain in the first quarter, partially offset by decreased interest expense due to refinancing exercise capturing the lower interest rate environment.
Share of losses of associates and joint venture was RMB 295 million compared to share of profit for the same quarter last year. Sequentially, share of losses widened by 5%. The movement mainly reflected the impact of longer revenue deferral period and greater marketing spend at an associate game company. On a non-IFRS basis, we recorded share of profit of RMB 658 million for the second quarter 2020.
Income tax expense was RMB 4.6 billion for quarter two 2020, and the effective tax rate was 12.3% this quarter. IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 33.1 billion, up 37% year-on-year and 15% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 3.437, up 36% year-on-year and 15% quarter-on-quarter.
Let me walk you through our non-IFRS financial numbers. For the second quarter, operating profit was RMB 37.6 billion, up 38% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Net profit after NCI was RMB 30.2 billion, up 28% year-on-year or 11% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 3.13, up 27% year-on-year and 11% quarter-on-quarter.
Turning to segment gross margin. Gross margin for VAS was 53.7%, up 1.1 percentage point year-on-year or down 5.3 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. This sequential decrease was primarily due to, number one, greater revenue mix of lower-margin digital content services, including the live broadcast of HUYA and music streaming services; two, higher mix of lower-margins platform games versus PC games.
Gross margin for Online Advertising was 51.4%, up 2.8 percentage points year-on-year or 2.2 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The industry wide removal of cultural construction fees contributed to the year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter increase. Sequentially, the improvement was also driven by a greater proportion of advertising revenue derived from higher-margin Weixin Moments.
Gross margin for FinTech and Business Services was 28.9%, up 4.9 percentage points year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase mainly reflected improved margin contributed by wealth management and payment-related services.
On operating expenses, selling and marketing expenses were at RMB 7.8 billion, up 64% year-on-year, or 10% quarter-on-quarter. Marketing spending increased year-on-year particularly on online games, Weishi, as well as cloud and business services. As a percentage of revenues, selling and marketing expenses increased to 6.8% from 5.3% in quarter two 2019. Sequentially, greater marketing spend was primarily driven by online games, cloud and business services, as well as the consolidation of HUYA.
G&A expenses was RMB 16.5 billion, up 31% year-on-year and 17% quarter-on-quarter, mainly due to greater investment in R&D and staff costs. Within G&A, R&D expenses were RMB 9.9 billion, up 39% year-on-year and 23% quarter-on-quarter. G&A and R&D represented 14.4% and 8.6% of revenues, respectively. As at quarter-end, we had approximately 71,000 employees, up 26% year-on-year and 10% quarter-on-quarter.
For the second quarter of 2020, gross margin was 46.3%, up 2.2 percentage points year-on-year or down 2.6 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Year-on-year increase reflected improved gross margin across all three business segments. Sequentially, margin decrease mainly reflecting lower gross margin of VAS, as mentioned before. Non-IFRS operating margin was 32.8%, up 2.1 percentage points year-on-year, and largely stable quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net margin was 27.2%, stable year-on-year, or up 1.3 percentage points quarter-on-quarter.
Finally, I will share with you some key financial metrics for the quarter. Total CapEx was RMB 9.5 billion, an increase of 117% year-on-year or 54% quarter-on-quarter. Operating CapEx grew 120% year-on-year to RMB 8.3 billion, mainly due to advanced procurement of servers to augment business growth. Non-operating CapEx decreased 96% year-on-year to RMB 1.2 billion, primarily reflecting spending on [ph] plant and equipment (00:24:02) construction.
At quarter-end, free cash flow was RMB 28.5 billion, up 127% year-on-year, or down 27% quarter-on-quarter. We recorded net cash position at RMB 7.2 billion, comparing to net debt of RMB 5.7 billion last quarter, which reflected a strong free cash flow generation and the consolidation of HUYA net cash balance, partially offset by payments for M&A initiatives. Fair value of our shareholdings in listed investee companies, excluding subsidiaries, was approximately RMB 726 billion or $103 billion as at the end of second quarter.
In closing my remarks, I would like to mention that we have made a statutory announcement on the White House issuance of the executive order relating to WeChat. WeChat and Weixin are two separate products, with WeChat serving our international users. Based on our initial reading and subsequent press reports, the executive order is focused on WeChat in the United States and not our other businesses in the US. We are in the process of seeking further clarification from relevant parties in the US.
Wendy Huang
Thank you, John. We shall now open the floor for questions. As the company is seeking clarification on the executive order, we will not be in a position to answer speculative or hypothetical questions. Let’s move to the Q&A about our second quarter results. Thank you for your understanding. Operator, we will take one main question and after one follow-up question each time. Please invite the first question.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
We have the first questions comes from the line of John Choi from Daiwa. Please go ahead.
John Choi
Good evening, and thank you for taking my question, and congratulation on a great quarter. My first question is on your mobile games. I think if you look at this quarter, management did mention that we’ve seen a decline sequentially in user time spent, but in terms of the revenue, it has done very well. I think flagship titles did very well this quarter. So, could management elaborate a bit more what has driven this? Is it more on the ARPU side or paying ratio? I guess some of the new promotions did help.
And just a quick follow-up from here like judging from this, we do have some news on the recent delay on DnF mobile. So, what should we expect for the second half growth for mobile games? And just quickly if you could touch base on your overseas revenue contribution from your online game will be very helpful. Thank you.
James Mitchell
John, thank you for the questions. So, I’ll try to catch all of them, but starting with the last one, the overseas contribution to games revenue was actually similar to the fourth quarter last year. We have a number of successful new games launched overseas, but as you know due to our relatively long amortization period, it’ll be a few quarters before those new games flow through from cash receipts into reported revenue.
Then in terms of the growth in the mobile games business in the second quarter, we saw time spent normalizing downward to some extent versus the first quarter as people returning to work in China. However, on the positive side, we saw time spent still increasing year-on-year in China, as we think the audience for some of these games have structurally expanded and we can see that in the data. And we saw uplift in time spent as well as investment in our international games which was helpful.
I’d also say that while it would be hard to sort of understate the transformative impact of the COVID disruption, the game industry continues to innovate and develop and grow in ways that will continue to yield benefits long after COVID. If you look, for example, at the quality of virtual items that we’re releasing now versus the quality of virtual items that were released 10 or 5 or even 2 years ago than – in the past, a virtual item might be a red pistol instead of a blue pistol.
Today, if you look at the game Peacekeeper Elite, then users have the ability to actually customize their car into a Tesla and that’s proven extremely popular. And, of course, when you’re talking about customizing an entire car, rather than just customizing a pistol, that’s a different price point. Another example on the customization of guns itself is if you look at the game Valorant, there’s a customization option called the Elderflame, which basically transforms your guns into dragons and the dragons eat ammunition with their jaws and then spit out bullets in the form of flames, and it’s amazing to look at.
And I think that 5 or 10 years ago, the technology didn’t really exist for people to customize their cars into Teslas and customize their guns into dragons. And, of course, these higher-technology virtual items come with higher price points and many players choose not to purchase those. But for the ones who do purchase them, I know they’re unlocking something that is actually really cool for themselves to enjoy, really interesting for other players to see, and helps fund the cost of continuing to make these games bigger and better going forward.
Then finally, on your question about the DnF mobile delay and the impacts on the second half of this year, I think it’s important to bear in minds that our game business growth in any period is driven by a multitude of games. So, while, for example, Peacekeeper Elite monetization has suddenly helped mobile game revenue in the first half of the year, we also saw strong growth from Honour of Kings. We also saw successful new releases like Brawl Stars, and so on and so forth.
And as we go through the rest of the year, we’ll continue to introduce more value-added virtual items within our existing games that we think will enjoy more resonance and we’ll continue to release a multitude of other games. So, while we expect to bring mobile DnF to market quite quickly, we think that, in reality, there’s a number of growth drivers for our mobile game business beyond any single title. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next questions comes from the line of Han Joon Kim from Macquarie. Please go ahead.
Han Joon Kim
Great. Thank you for the chance to ask a question. I’ll ask them one by one. The first one is really just a question about your M&A strategy and perhaps I’m reading this pattern wrong, but I think in the past we’ve kind of seen you guys take a minority stake and kind of take it – approach it from an ecosystem approach.
I think more recently, I feel like we’ve been seeing things that, whether it’s [indiscernible] iQiyi and things like that. We’re trying to absorb them a little bit more. So, am I reading this pattern wrong? Or has there been a difference in kind of thought process about how we should be internalizing some of these assets that might be creating more synergies if we do internalize them? So, just kind of perspective on that will be great.
Martin Lau
Yeah, I think our M&A strategy has always been trying to invest in up-and-coming companies which have a great management, who have innovative products, and at the same time, they have synergies with our existing platforms. And that has served us very well in the past. And we are actually very much thinking along with this strategy. And if you look at the overall portfolio that we have, we now have more than 700 companies. And by and large, most of them, the vast majority of them are still existing in that mode, right? We are backing entrepreneurial teams to drive their companies forward, and at the same time, we try to figure out organic ways to work with them in a synergistic way.
It just happens that when you have 700 companies, then some of the companies may actually get to a stage where the entrepreneurs, the management figure out maybe they want to seek a even tighter core operation with Tencent. In some cases, they may want to retire. In some cases, they actually want to enter into a new stage of working. In some cases, their products can actually be integrated as well as cooperating much more closely with our platforms. And that’s the time when we may consider changing a different way of working with them and moving them into a more consolidated portfolio.
And so, this is not a change in our strategy. This is just within our strategy that would be at different life stages of the lifecycle of the companies. And in some cases, there’s another way for us to be working with these portfolio companies. And you’re just seeing some of them happening in the course of this year.
Han Joon Kim
Got it. Got it. Thank you. That makes sense. My second question is, and I think you’ve partially touched upon this with the Official Accounts earlier, but there’s a lot going on in WeChat, whether it’s Moments or the short video or channel growing or whether it’s Mini Programs. So, within all of the agility that’s been going on within WeChat, do we see kind of any cannibalization between traffic? Or what kind of patterns do we see to the extent that can WeChat be encompassing all sorts of broader sets of behavior, whether it’s commerce, whether it’s advertising and all of that? Just kind of how we think through as we attach on incremental services, how that’s transferring into traffic and time spent across these services?
Martin Lau
Yeah, I think this is a good question. And the way we look at WeChat and Weixin, particularly Weixin, right, it’s really from a user perspective, right, what are going to be useful for users. I think we’re not trying to sort of aggregate a lot of services just to increase the amount of user time. What we want to do is actually we want to build these services one by one, right, so that they actually can add value to solve some real life problems and add utility to our users.
So, if you look at the history of Weixin, which has been quite long, we started off to be a communication platform, then we added Moments and then we have Official Accounts and then we have payment. And over time, we add one service after another. But it’s actually spread across a very long period of time. And every time we introduce a new service, it’s with a lot of caution and thought and testing, so that we want to make sure that it’s not a cluttered experience for the users and it actually helped to solve a particular user need in an elegant way. So, I think that’s the design approach and principle of Weixin, and we have always been following along with that.
In a lot of cases, we actually try to actually send away the users, right, and not occupy them for too long a time.