Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY) Q1 2021 Earnings Conference Call May 20, 2021  8:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Wendy Huang - IR
Pony Ma - Chairman and CEO
Martin Lau - President
James Mitchell - Chief Strategy Officer
John Lo - Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Alicia Yap - Citigroup
William Packer - BNP Paribas
John Choi - Daiwa Capital Markets
Han Joon Kim - Macquarie
Eddie Leung - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Gary Yu - Morgan Stanley
Robin Zhu - Bernstein
Jerry Liu - UBS
Operator
Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Tencent Holdings Limited 2021 First Quarter Results Announcement Conference Call. Well, at this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] 
Now I would like to hand the conference over to Ms. Wendy Huang from Tencent IR team. Thank you. Please go ahead ma'am.
Wendy Huang
Thank you and good evening. Welcome to our 2021 first quarter results conference call. Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements, which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent.
This presentation also contains some unaudited non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, measures of the company's financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosure documents on the IR section of our website.
Let me introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick off with a short overview. President, Martin Lau, will discuss strategy review. Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will speak to business review; and the Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial discussions before we open the floor for questions.
I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma
Thank you, Wendy. Good evening. Thanks everyone for joining us. During the first quarter we achieved solid growth across our businesses, in particular, in our FinTech and Business Services and advertising revenue streams. We are also setting up investment in [indiscernible] including Business Services and enterprise software, high production value games and short-form video, which will be covered in more details in the strategy section.
Now let me go through the highlight financial numbers for the quarter. Total revenue was RMB 135 billion, up 25% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 63 billion up 19% year-on-year and 6% quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS operating profit was RMB 43 billion, up 20% year-on-year and 12% quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net profit attributable to FD holders were RMB 33 billion up 22% year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter.
For our key services despite intense competition across the China Internet industry, we generally became expand our first-place position in activities, including social, games, long-form video, news, music, literature, payment, and mobile utilities. And we believe we gained market share in cloud services. Combined MAU of Weixin and WeChat was 1.24 billion. Mobile devices Mau of QQ was 606 million.
Martin and James will discuss our future strategy and progress across some of these activities in detail, and I will hand over to Martin for the strategy review.
Martin Lau
Thank you, Pony, and good evening and good morning to everybody. Today I will walk you through a few strategic investment areas that we believe will support our long-term growth. In the course of 2020 we saw exciting new market opportunities emerging. Now first, businesses are accelerating their movement online and industries are speeding up digitization across their value chains. Second, the audience for games structurally expanded due to the stay at home period. We believe emerging genres and advanced technologies will drive further game audience growth.
Third, as the short video market matures, we believe users will seek more diverse and nutritious short-form video content. At the same time, the entire Internet industry is undergoing a new round of additional investment in which investors and companies are prioritizing growth over profit. We can see this in our own investee portfolio where heavy investments are made in areas such as community group buy electric vehicles, and user acquisition. On the other hand, these initiatives boost market valuation with the market value of stakes in listed investees investees exceeding $200 billion as of quarter end.
On the other hand, our top-five loss-making associates reduced our non-IFRS net profit by 7% in the first quarter. As for Tencent, we see opportunities to proactively invest in several areas where we can be an early mover and a shaper of the industry evolution, rather than playing catch-up later. First of all, Business Services, we're adding headcount and infrastructure to assist the digitization of various industries. Second, games, we're investing in high production value games with global appeal.
Third, short-form video content, we're cultivating multiple ecosystems to meet users' emerging needs for more interesting content. Fourth, sustainable social value, we announced the establishment of new SSV Org to bring technology benefits to the society. Funding these investments, we will absorb a portion of our incremental profits from existing businesses for 2021. We expect such investment would deliver very high return over the longer run.
In the next few slides, I will discuss the specific opportunities, the progress and achievements we have made so far and the initiatives that we are funding going forward.
Now let's start with Business Services. Since we upgraded our strategy to embrace industrial Internet in 2018 we have seen products and service providers and customers aspiring to optimize their connection with consumers digitally. Various industries are deepening digitalization across customer engagement, operations, production and supply chain, particularly after COVID-19. Meanwhile, enterprises widely adopted online collaboration tools internally to improve their efficiency.
We have achieved some structural strength in this area. For example, on the skill front, we believe that across our internal usage and external customers, our cloud service now run the largest number of servers in China. And on the platform and software front, we provide the leading CRM collaboration and productivity solutions in the market where those services are highly valued by enterprises. After a period of destruction due to COVID-19 our cloud services moved back to an above industry revenue growth rate in the first quarter.
So double down on these trends we're increasing headcounts for product development to enhance our service offering and also expanding our sales team selves to facilitate client acquisitions and service. We're strengthening the capabilities and interconnections of our productivity SaaS products and security software to extend their leadership positions. At the same time, we're growing the networks of independent software vendors and SaaS partner through strategic operations and investments. We are also deepening our smart industry strategy by expanding coverage and enhancing up-selling cross-sell competences in key verticals such as healthcare, retail, education and transportation.
Turning to games, we believe the global industry opportunities and the resources required to capture the opportunities are larger than ever. First, mobile devices are extending the total addressable market for games, which was further boosted by the stay-at-home period. We believe emerging genres and development with developers will further expand the market.
Second, game players are becoming more discerning and quality sensitive. High production value, innovative and cross-platform games can attract and retain large audiences to an extent not previously possible.
Thirdly, Chinese game developers are attaining early success in global markets. We believe we are already in the early stages of capitalizing on these trends. Our high DAU franchise games, such as Honour of Kings, PUBG Mobile, Peacekeeper Elite and League of Legends uphold our leadership in major genres. Each one of them consistently deliver large, loyal audiences, as well as solid monetization. On top of that, our internal and investee studios are working on a large and diverse game pipeline.
International revenues now also account for a substantial portion of our game revenues and titles such as PUBG Mobile, League of Legends, and Valorant have achieved sustained player recognition globally.
Looking forward, we aspire to lead the industry and are committing the necessary additional resources. We are making long-term investments in developing large-scale, high-production value games to attract players globally. We are funding development of innovative games in emerging verticals. We are building up IP franchises suitable for games and expanding across media. We'll step up marketing expenditures and attract a bigger audience to new games and we are investing in emerging areas, such as our cloud gaming services.
Next, we'll talk about our investment in the short-form video arena. China consumers have shown great appetite for watching short-form video and we're investing to address how we see that appetite evolving going forward. First, we are positioning video accounts as a new infrastructure invasion, connecting users with real life content and bridging high-quality content creators with consumers.
We'll provide resources as well as handy creation and monetization tools to attract diverse content creators, thus incubating a unique content portfolio. We optimized technology to unlock potential of social plus algorithmic recommendations, leveraging the strengths to increase exposure of knowledge based content. Besides, we are adding service and bandwidth to support the solid organic growth in video accounts. We're confident that these investments will benefit the ecosystem and engage greater audience over time.
Second, we recently merged Tencent Video and WeiShi, our short-form video app in PCG, seeking to bring integrated viewing experiences to users and rich content offerings, as well as sharpen algorithmic recommendation. Along with this internal business reorg, we are escalating self commissioned production to further expand our IP content library, which can facilitate creation of more video clips, greater network, and better serve users emerging needs for high-quality short content. We'll also leverage our capabilities acquired through building up WeiShi to empower our long-form video business in terms of content creation, recommendation, user acquisition and operations.
Finally, we announced our aspiration to promote sustainable innovations for social value. We seek to bring sustainable benefits and value to society by leveraging our technology and products and to elevate the importance of sustainable social value when making decisions in all our products and services.
By integrating our existing corporate social responsibility and charitable activities into a new, Sustainable, Social Value Organization, SSV Org, we created a dedicated team to deploy social value initiatives in a professional and entrepreneurial way. We incubate projects in various areas, such as basic science, education, innovation, rural revitalization, carbon neutrality and food energy and water provision. Where appropriate, we'll link these projects with our existing businesses.
In addition to making charitable donations, we'll seek to promote the development of self-sustainable operations, which could create new value from related industries and for society. Throughout the process, we'll pursue long-term social value, rather than economic profits. We are committing an initial capital of RMB 50 billion to be funded by our investment gains. We believe that our strategic upgrade and the new initiatives will allow us to make an even more positive impact to the society and usher in a new phase of development for Tencent.
Now with that, I'll pass to James, to talk about our business review.
James Mitchell
Thank you very much, Martin. For the first quarter of 2021, our total revenue grew 25% year-on-year. VAS represented 54% of our revenue within which Games were 32% and Social Networks 22%. Online advertising was 16% and FinTech and Business Services represented 29% of total revenue. The Value Added Services segment revenue was RMB 72 billion, up 16% year-on-year and up 8% quarter-on-quarter.
Social Networks revenue increased 15% year-on-year to RMB 29 billion on moderate growth of digital content subscriptions and in-game items sales. Total VAS subscriptions increased 14% year-on-year to 226 million. Video subscriptions grew 12% to 125 million benefiting from adaptation of IPs such as the Land of Warriors, is animated and live action drama series.
Music subscriptions expanded 43% to 61 million due to better content, effective marketing campaigns, and an improved retention rate. Games revenue grew 17% year-on-year to RMB 44 billion against the high base stay at home period, which started in China in the first quarter of 2020. Growth was primarily driven by mobile games in China and by mobile and PC games in international markets. Sequentially game revenue increased 12% due to Chinese New Year seasonality.
For Mobile Games, total revenue increased 19% year-on-year to RMB 41 billion, benefiting from robust performance of existing games, such as Honor of Kings, PUBG Mobile and Peacekeeper Elite, as well as contributions from new games such as Moonlight Blade Mobile and Call of Duty Mobile in China. The PC client games revenue increased 1% year-on-year to RMB 12 billion as contributions from Valorant and Warframe as well growth from Cross Fire offset the decline from Dungeon & Fighter.
For Weixin, we provided more support for our partners and are together building a vibrant content and service ecosystem. On the content front, we attract and cultivate video accounts creators by providing customized onboarding services, favorable traffic allocation to build their initial audiences and training in video production best practices.
On the services front we provide capabilities to increase penetration of Mini Programs, particularly among SMEs. Our low code development platform enables smaller businesses to create Mini Programs in a more cost effective way. And we launched new tools to assist system integrators. The number of active Mini Programs served by system integrators more than tripled year-on-year.
For QQ we are leveraging technology to better integrate social and content consumption experiences, such as seamless connection between instant messaging and games. Users can team up with QQ friends to start multi-player game battle with one click. And QQ Mini Programs facilitate users staying up to date with in-game events. Looking forward QQ's new leadership team will seek to upgrade the products technology, operations and content, to better serve the social and entertainment needs of younger users.
Turning to Games, aggregate user engagements and user spending increased year on year despite the high 1Q 2020 comparison period. We released Honour of Kings' biggest update in January to improve graphics and game experiences and then launched an appealing marketing campaign with top-tier skins during the Chinese New Year, which drove the game's DUA and tank users to record high levels in February. We reduced the application file size of PUBG Mobile and enhanced our local market operating capabilities, boosting PUBG Mobile's DAU in countries, including Turkey, Egypt, and Russia.
For League of Legends, we distributed bigger and better Lunar Revel content for the core game mode, as well as for Teamfight Tactics, contributing to higher global revenue year on year. Beyond these large audience games, we're also cultivating emerging genres. For example, new releases Komori Life and the Walnut Diary ranked among China's top 10 life simulation mobile games by DAU in April.
Our pipeline includes action-packed arena, role playing, simulation, strategy, and survival games. For China many of these new games are adapted from popular existing game and literature IPs. Internationally we expect out substantial prior investments, investing class, PC console and mobile studios to begin contributing a range of genre innovating games in the quarters to come.
Moving to online advertising, total revenue was RMB 22 billion in the quarter, up 23% year-on-year, assisted by three factors beyond our ongoing product innovation and Ad Tech improvements. First, higher ad spend from the eCommerce and education verticals. Second, FMCG an automobile related advertising revenue benefiting from economic growth and third, full quarter consolidation of the Bitauto automobile vertical side. We enhanced the transaction capabilities of our ad properties and customized marketing solutions for key verticals including games, retail and automobiles, delivering higher ROIs for advertisers.
Looking forward, IDFA deprecation on iOS devices appears to have limited impacts on the Chinese ad markets so far, while other potential uncertainties include possible regulatory headwinds for K12 education and potential delays to the video content release schedule. Our Social and Others advertising revenue expanded 27% year-on-year to RMB 19 billion, driven by moments in mobile ad network within which moments, impressions and revenue increased as we added inventory and as more advertisers adopted Mini Programs as landing pages.
Our Mobile Ad network revenue grew rapidly, reflecting increased video ad inventories primarily within games, online reading and tool applications. Our Media advertising revenue rose 7% year-on-year to RMB 3 billion largely due to increased ad inventory and eCPM within our music Apps. During the quarter we released several popular self-commissioned variety shows including Chuang 2021 and Roast Season 5, driving our sponsorship ad revenue.
Looking at FinTech and Business Services segment revenue was RMB 39 billion, up 47% year-on-year and up 1% quarter-on-quarter. Within FinTech Services, year-on-year revenue growth rates higher than in prior quarters benefiting from an easy base period of stay at home activity reduced offline consumption in 1Q 2020.
Our payment business is also structurally benefiting from the broader digitalization, consumer habits and of the economy. Payment volume and revenue increased slightly quarter-on-quarter despite seasonally reduced eCommerce activity. Offline spending picked up as many people stayed in the cities in which they work during the Chinese New Year holiday which boosted local spending on retail and dining services.
The Business Services revenue grew at a healthy rate year-on-year benefiting from resumed project deployment and robust demand from industries including enterprise software and online video provision. Increased customer uptake of our security communication and CRM solutions drove notable growth in our PaaS and SaaS revenue, both absolutely and is proportionate of our overall Business Services revenue. Our PaaS marketplace now includes thousands of partners, Software-as-a-Service products. We launched Enterprise App Connector with unified login accounts and data flows across different SaaS products, allowing SaaS providers to develop and deliver their products more efficiently while facilitating enterprise clients to better integrate multiple software solutions. 
And with that, I'll pass it to John to discuss the financials.
John Lo
Thank you, James. For the first quarter of 2021 total revenue was RMB 135.3 billion, up 25% year-on-year or 1% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 62.6 billion, up 19% year-on-year or 6% quarter-on-quarter.Net other gains were RMB 19.5 billion, up 384% year-on-year or down 41% quarter-on-quarter. This mainly comprised non-IFRS adjustment items including fair value gains reflecting increased valuation of the investee companies and verticals such as FinTech and Social Media, as well as net gains on DIM disposal and disposals of certain investee companies.
Operating profit was RMB 56.3 billion, up 51% year-on-year or down 12% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were RMB 1.4 billion, down 19% year-on-year or 39% quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year decrease was mainly driven by reduced interest rate as we captured favorable interest environment in our treasury exercise. The Q-on-Q decrease was primarily caused by ForEx gain this quarter while we recorded ForEx loss a quarter ago.
Share profits of associates and joint ventures was RMB 1.3 billion compared to share profits for first quarter last year as we benefited from non-IFRS adjustment items including a non-recurring fair value gain on investment of an associate, as well as improved performance of certain associates. On a non-IFRS basis we recorded a share profit of RMB 100 billion for the first quarter of 2021 comparing to RMB 164 million a year ago.
Income tax expense was RMB 7.2 billion this quarter. Effective tax rate for the quarter was 12.9%. IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 47.8 billion, up 55% percent year-on-year or down 19% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 4.917 up 64% year-on-year or down 20% quarter-on-quarter.
Now I'll share with you non-IFRS financial figures. For the first quarter operating profit was RMB 42.8 billion, up 20% year-on-year or 12% quarter-on-quarter. Net profit after NCI was RMB 33.1 billion, up 22% year-on-year or actually [ph] stable quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 3.415, up 21% year-on-year or lastly stable quarter-on-quarter.
Moving on to gross margin, the overall gross margin was 46.3%, down 2.6 percentage points year-on-year or up 2.3 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Analyzed by segment, gross margin for VAS was 55.1%, down 3.9 percentage points year-on-year or up 3.6 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year decline was mainly due to number 1, increased content costs for more airing of dramas and variety [ph] shows versus a year ago. Number 2, as revenue mix shift from high margin PC client games and QQ subscriptions to lower margin digital content services.
The sequential increase relatively to -- from revenue mix shift toward higher-margin mobile games amid favorable year-on-year gain. Gross margin for Online Advertising was 45.1%, down 4.1 percentage point year on year and 8.2 percentage points quarter on quarter. The year-on-year decrease was mainly due to higher revenue contributions from mobile and network businesses, which carries lower margins sequentially.
The decline mainly reflected seasonality and increase the content cost for more airing of drama series and sports events. Gross margins for fintech and business services was 32.3%, up 4.4% each point year on year and 3.8% each point quarter on quarter. Both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter margin growth was mainly due to revenue mix shift toward merchant payment and wealth management services, which carry relatively higher profit margins. In addition, the operational efficiency of business services hub on our sequential margin growth.
On operating expenses, selling and marketing expenses were RMB 8.5 billion, up 21% year-on-year or down 15% quarter-on-quarter. The year on year increase was mainly due to increased marketing spending, particularly on Business Services and Games and a consolidation of newly acquired subsidiaries such as Bitauto as well as Huya stocks and welfare expenses. Sequentially marketing expense was lower because of seasonality. As a percentage of revenues selling and marketing expenses was 6.3% of revenues plus this April and compared to first quarter of 2020. 
G&A expense were RMB 19 billion, up 34% year-on-year or down 4% quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase mainly reflected greater R&D cost. The Q-on-Q decline was mainly driven by seasonally lower office travel and entertainment expenses. Within G&A R&D expenses were RMB 11.3 billion up 41% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter. G&A and R&D represented 14% and 8.4% of revenues respectively. At the quarter-end we have approximately 89,000 employees, an increase of 39% year-on-year and 4% quarter-on-quarter.
Let's take a look at the operating and net margin ratios. For the first quarter 2021 non-IFRS operating margin was 31.6% down 1.3 percentage points year-on-year or up 3.1 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Non-IFRS net margin was 25.5%. That should be stable both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. 
Finally I'll share some key financial metrics for the quarter. Total CapEx was RMB 7.7 billion an increase of 26% year-on-year or decrease of 20% quarter-on-quarter. Within which operating CapEx grew 20% year-on-year to RMB 6.6 billion due to more spending on servers and network equipment to open a new business growth. Non-operating CapEx increased 69% year-on-year to RMB 1.1 billion, mainly driven by increased expenditure on Cloud, SaaS expenses, and office properties. Free cash flow for the quarter was RMB 33.2 billion, down 15% year-on-year or up 20% quarter-on-quarter.
Net cash position declined sequentially to RMB 5.6 billion mainly due to net cash outflow for M&A activities partially offset by free cash flow generation. The fair value of our shareholding in listed investee companies excluding subsidiaries was approximately RMB1.4 trillion or $207 billion as at the end of first quarter.
Thank you. We shall now open the call for questions.
Wendy Huang
Operator, we will take one question to one follow up question each time. Please invite the first question.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you.[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alicia Yap from Citigroup. Please go ahead.
Alicia Yap
Hi, good evening management. Thanks for taking my questions. Congrats on the solid results. I have two questions. The first one is regarding your comment about stepping up the investment in game development. When you say the large scale and high production value games, do you plan to invest games that will turn into strong global IP that the gamers will play and maybe remember for their lifetime or does that mean we could take multiple years of development before we see any final product? And is this rational also because of we are seeing growing gamers tractions in markets such as like India, LatAm, EMEA or even in the U.S. that we look into penetrate further, that we can leverage our experience in mobile game developments to grow our global share?
The second question is on the cloud business, we are seeing or hearing from peers, some a little bit slowdown in the industry. So is Tencent Cloud also experience some industry transition, where the existing infrastructure cloud customer, which is already quite sizable, and maybe facing industry slowdown and making some penetration effort into new industry vertical, or is fair to say, we actually already envision this transition better and already started to move more proactively in strengthening these on the higher margin SaaS capability that we actually could start to see the cloud revenue to further reaccelerate in the coming quarters? Thank you.
James Mitchell
Alicia, thank you for the questions and I'll take a shot at both of them and then Martin will likely supplement. So the short answer to the first question is yes. We absolutely would aspire to make games that players enjoy, and ideally play for life. But of course, it's easier to express that aspiration and realize that aspiration.
Now, you're right to say that creating those in a lifelong game experiences requires many years of game development, but this is a trend that we've identified many years ago and we have a number of products that have indeed, already been in development for many years. And some of those are games that we're creating in China in our big internal studios, like, to TiMi and QUANTUM and MoreFun and Aurora and some of those games that we're creating outside China are at studios which we invest in around the world. And over the coming quarters and years, we hope to bring, some of those big budget, long production cycle games to market.
Now, as to why we're focused on this now, and what changes now versus the past, then we are indeed seeing that the global audience for games has grown, both before, during and after COVID and we're seeing particular growth in emerging markets, such as the ones you highlight, but also in developed markets. And we're also seeing that game players are increasingly willing to form longer term relationships with games that they particularly enjoy, such as the League of Legends or Fortnite or Honor of Kings, which have very high retention rates. And then as gamers, even if they churn, they come back to and enjoy again.
And, on our side, while historically our focus was primarily on the China market, as in recent quarters we've had some hits globally that were developed in China, including PUBG Mobile, including Call of Duty Mobile, all of which gives us more confidence to step up our rate of investment and step up our rate of investment means fund bigger, better games, if necessary for longer periods of time.
It also means to fund more experimental games. It also means invest more in game marketing and game publishing capabilities. And then finally, it means investing in Frontier Technologies, such as cloud based gaming. So we'll further grow the game industry in the future. So that's on your game question.
With regard to your cloud question, I think that we don't necessarily see a sudden transition in the industry this year versus previous years. Rather, our belief is that when you're in the cloud business, it is inevitable that if you're renting infrastructure to very big companies, then those big companies will use their negotiating power to protect their own economics.
And as a result, the path to long-term economic returns in cloud is not to get big fast, or infrastructure, but actually it's cultivate Platform as a Service and Software as a Service and that's something that we've been doing now for several years. Perhaps as a service in particular is a substantial percentage of our total cloud revenues now and that's an important underlying reason why we believe that we're able to outgrow the industry in the first quarter this year.
Martin Lau
Just one point to add. On the gaming side, I think you emphasized one is like new creation of IPs and two is many years before you can see final product. I think, if you look at our recent pipeline of games, which we have announced of more than 40 of them, I think it's a combination. Some odd original IPs, which would take a very long time to develop, some are actually existing IPs that we're going to take existing assets, pretty proven Gameplay, and we would add our innovation for mobile, and then we'll developed it fo