Tencent Holdings Limited (OTCPK:TCEHY)  Q3 2021 Earnings Conference Call November 10, 2021  7:00 AM ET
Company Participants
Pony Ma – CEO
John Lo – CFO
Martin Lau – President
James Mitchell – Chief Strategy Officer
Jane Yip – Investor Relations
Conference Call Participants
Piyush Mubayi – Goldman Sachs
Charlene Liu – HSBC
Alex Yao – JPMorgan
Robin Zhu – Bernstein
Garret Wang – CITIC
William Packer – Exane BNP Paribas
Gary Yu – Morgan Stanley
John Choi – Daiwa Capital Markets
Alicia Yap – Citigroup
Eddie Leung – Bank of America
Operator
Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Tencent Holdings Limited Third Quarter 2021 Results Announcement Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in the listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] And now, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Jane Yip from Tencent IR team. Thank you. Please go ahead.
Jane Yip
Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Welcome to our 2021 Third Quarter Results Conference Call. Before we start the presentation, we would like to remind you that it includes forward-looking statements, which are underlined by a number of risks and uncertainties and may not be realized in the future for various reasons. Information about general market conditions is coming from a variety of sources outside of Tencent. This presentation also contains some audited non-IFRS financial measures that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for measures of the group's financial performance, prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
For a detailed discussion of risk factors and non-IFRS measures, please refer to our disclosures document on the IR section of our website. Let me introduce the management team on the call tonight. Our Chairman and CEO, Pony Ma, will kick off with a short overview. President Martin Lau and Chief Strategy Officer, James Mitchell, will provide a business review. Chief Financial Officer, John Lo, will conclude with financial discussion before we open the floor for questions. I will now turn the call over to Pony.
Pony Ma 
Thank you, Jane. Good evening. Thanks everyone for joining us. During the third quarter, the Internet industry, including the domestic games industries, and certain advertiser categories, adapted to new regulatory and macro-economic developments. We are proactively embracing the new regulatory environment, which we believe should contribute to a more sustainable development path for the industry. In the domestic gain market, our industry is leading efforts in fully complying with new regulations significantly reduced minus gain time and spending fostering a healthier game play environment. 
We also invest actively in key strategic areas, as well as in frontiers of technologies, along with making new commitment in common prosperity initiatives. Looking forward, we are committed to delivering superior experiences to users, assisting enterprises to digitalize their operations, and contributing to this society at large. Starting from this quarter, we disclosed revenue from Domestic and International Games as new sub-segment under VAS, reflecting the increasing scale of our international games business. Now let me go through the headline number -- financial number for the quarter. Total revenue was RMB 142 billion, up 13% year-on-year and 3% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 63 billion, up 11% year-on-year and stable quarter-on-quarter. non-IFRS operating profit was RMB 41 billion, up 7% year-on-year, or down 5% quarter-on-quarter. non-IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 32 billion, down 2% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter. 
Moving to our key services. We focus on upgrading technologies and product innovation, maintaining our first or second place market positions across key businesses, including Social, Games, Digital Content, Payment, and Public Cloud Services. Combined the MAU of Weixin and WeChat was RMB1.26 billion. Mobile devices MAU off QC was RMB574 million. Now, I will hand over to Martin and James for the Business Review.
Martin Lau 
Thank you, Pony and good evening -- good morning, everybody. For the third quarter of 2021, our total revenue grew 13% year-on-year. VAS represented 53% of our total revenue within which domestic game subsegment revenue was 24%, international game subsegment was 8%, and social networks subsegment revenue was 21%. Online advertising accounted for 16% of our total revenue. And FinTech and business services was 30% of total revenue. For value added services, segment revenue was RMB 75 billion for the third quarter, up 8% year-on-year. Social network subsegment revenue increased 7% year-on-year to RMB 30 billion, reflecting relatively rapid growth from video and music subscriptions and moderate growth from live-streaming and in-game item sales. 
Total VAS subscriptions grew 10% year-on-year to RMB 235 million. Video subscriptions increased 8% year-on-year to a RMB 129 million driven by popular drama series. For example, our self-commissioned TV drama, Crime Crackdown, as well as Honor of King's tie-in You Are My Glory ranked number 1 and number 2 by video views across all online platforms in China for the quarter, broadening our user mix in terms of gender and age. The success of this series demonstrated our progress in content production and cross-media IP extension. Music subscriptions increased 838% year-on-year to 71 million as more users are attracted by TME's enhanced streaming experience. 
Looking at our games business, for domestic games, revenue grew 5% year-on-year to RMB 34 billion, primarily driven by Honor of Kings, Call of DUty Mobile, and Moonlight Blade Mobile. Revenue grew sequentially due to seasonal activities in Peacekeeper Elite and Dungeon and Fighter. For international games, the revenue increased 20% year-on-year to RMB 11 billion, a 28% in constant currency terms, benefiting from robust performance of Valorant and Clash of Clans. 
Moving to Weixin, we continue to strengthen its content and commerce ecosystems. In video accounts, we're fostering rich and diverse content. An increasing number of content creators from official accounts now express their ideas in video format, contributing to a differentiated set of content in video accounts. Our strength in sports coverage, music, and games also enriched and diversified our content offering. 
Video consumption grew healthily as we proactively enhanced content and recommendation technology. For Mini Programs, we're deepening penetration across industries, including restaurants, retailing, and transportation. The number of active Mini Programs increased by over 40% year-on-year, testifying to the vibrancy of the commerce ecosystem. By integrating WeCom's enterprise communication tool with Mini Programs, we enable the direct interactions between individual sales person and customers in retailer’s private domain environment. As a result, retailers can foster their own customer relationships, and drive sales efficiently. For QQ, in our last upgrade for QQ, we've been stepping up our effort and technology on the interactive side. We enhanced video and AI technologies to facilitate creative and efficient content production driving more UGC activities on our platform. 
We customized AR tools with festivals and national landmarks, adding more engaging experiences for users to interact with the physical world. We also provided cross-screen interactive effects in video call, offering more entertaining, shared experiences. Through these upgrades, we make user's interaction in QQ more exciting and immersive. Turning to games, first on Domestic Games. We believe fostering of healthy game-play environment for domestic market is of paramount importance. 
Since September 1st, we have implemented new measures to fully comply with the latest regulations on restricting minor's game time in China. Subsequently, users under 18 years old accounted for 0.7% of our Domestic Games time spent in September, reduced significantly from 6.4% in the same period last year. In addition, these users accounted for 1.1% of our Domestic Games gross receipt in September down from 4.8% in the same period last year. We continue to lead the industry in compacting minor's usage of adult accounts. For example, we upgrade our screening systems to identify misused adult accounts around the clock. We also proactively assist authorities in cracking down on illegal account transactions. Looking at the highlights of our Games business. 
For Honor of Kings, we're bringing to life Chinese culture with a series of popular skins which successfully transmitted provincial arts, and traditions to a wider audience. We made significant progress in expanding successful PC franchise to mobile, Wild Rift successfully reactivated an enlarged League of Legends user base by extending the authentic PC experience to mobile devices. In October 2021, it ranked second by DAU among all mobile games in China. We also invigorated to auto chess genre by introducing PBE and co-op game play in Fight of the Golden Spatula. It is the second most popular new game launch in China year-to-date by DAU, only behind Wild Rift. 
For international games, we have been developing our business for more than a decade now and its scale relative to our domestic business has been increasing over the last few years. We do expect exciting opportunities ahead in the Global Games industry, as we discussed in our investment strategy with you earlier this year. In order to further develop this high-growth business, firstly, we enhanced our upstream game development capabilities. We're increasing investment in talent and leading studios. Our China base studio groups, especially TiMi and LightSpeed are scaling up with new talent hires, not only in China, but also globally. Riot and Supercell, which have developed multiple hit games, are also ramping up their development teams. 
In the meantime, we are acquiring and nurturing specialist genre-leading studios, such as Digital Extremes, Grinding Gear Games, and Fatshark, to name a few. And we nurture them with our know-how technology and funding. Secondly, we are strengthening our global IP portfolio with multiple strategies. Internally, we extend our globally recognized IPs, such as League of Legends, Clash of Clans, as well as Honor of Kings to mobile and to additional genres, expanding our addressable market. We're also creating games with the potential to become new global IPs, such as Valorant and Brawl Stars. 
Externally, we partner with renowned IP owners to develop mobile games with global appeal, such as PUBG Mobile, Call of Duty Mobile, and Pokemon Unite, and there are more to come. Thirdly, to support our expansion in multiple regions, we're building up localized publishing and operational capabilities. We are also stepping up our marketing efforts in eSports operations to foster player communities. We'll continue to step up our investment in our international games business. Now with that, I'll pass to James to discuss other businesses.
James Mitchell 
Thank you, Martin. Moving to online advertising. Total revenue was RMB 22.5 billion in the third quarter. Revenue growth slowed to 5% year-on-year due to weakness from the education, insurance, and games sectors, while consumer staples, Internet services, and automobile sectors remained resilient, overall bidding density reduced. We expect advertising price in industry-wide may remain soft for several quarters due to macro challenges and regulations affecting certain key advertising sectors. 
We believe the advertising industry should adjust, and re-base during 2022, then resume growth -- the secular growth drivers reassert themselves. Our Social and Others Advertising revenue increased 7% year-on-year to RMB 19 billion, primarily driven by Weixin Mini Programs and Official Accounts, although slowed by weaker eCPMs at our ad network. We're enabling enterprises to connects users with salespeople via embedding WeCom chat-to-salesperson functionality within their advertisements, which is especially effective for need-driven advertisers such as automobile dealers. 
An increasing number of transaction-driven advertisers such as grocery and e-commerce merchants, use Mini Programs as their ads landing pages, which helps them better convert traffic into transactions. Our media advertising revenue declined 4% year-on-year due to less revenue from the Tencent news app. On the positive side, we streamed top-tier drama series, variety shows, and the Toyko 2020 Olympic Games, generating in previous sponsorship revenue on Tencent video app. Looking at FinTech and Business Services, segment revenue was RMB 43 billion, up 30% year-on-year and up 3% quarter-on-quarter. 
With Infintech services, year-on-year revenue growth was mainly driven by increased commercial payment volume with healthy growth in categories such as groceries, power and transportation. Commercial payment daily active users and per-user transactions both increased. Compared to the second quarter of 2021, offline commercial payment volume growth moderated on a year-on-year basis due to control measures against COVID-19 resurgence in certain provinces. We deepened our cooperation with UnionPay to develop new payments and service interconnection scenarios. 
Users can now scan Weixin Pay QR codes via the UnionPay Cloud QuickPass app to make offline payments and Cloud QuickPass also supports top-up purchases for QQ points, QQ music and Tencent video subscription services. The business services revenue grew at a healthy rate year-on-year benefiting from continued digitalization, traditional industries such as financial services, and transportation, as well as videolization of the Internet industry. We see substantial potential in China's under penetrated customer relationship management market. 
Our CRM Software-as-a-Service solution, Tencent QiDian has helped more than a million enterprises to enhance cost efficiency in customer service, and is increasingly adopted by medium and large scale enterprises including Dell, SF Express, and Siemens. Clients can automate 80% to 90% of their customer service workloads via the virtual assistant, leveraging our AI-powered solutions across chat, voice, and other communications channels. 
Our Tencent Database Structured Query Language Platform-as-a-Service solution with TDSQL database has served more than 3,000 clients from verticals including financial services, public services, and telecom. Within the financial vertical, we see increasing demand for upgrading database architecture with enhanced security protection. TDSQL serves six out of the top 10 banks in China, and increased its penetration within financial institution's core systems due to their trust in our data security, reliability, and consistency. And I'll now pass to John to discuss the financial review.
John Lo 
Thanks, James. Hi, everybody. For the third quarter of 2021, total revenue was RMB 142.4 billion, up 13% year-on-year or 15% quarter-on-quarter. Gross profit was RMB 62.7 billion, up 11% year-on-year or broadly stable quarter-on-quarter. Net other gains were RMB23 billion, up 99% year-on-year, or 11% quarter-on-quarter. This mainly comprised non-IFRS adjustment relating to our investing companies, including number one, deemed disposal and disposal gains of our investing companies in sectors such as games, Internet utility, and local services. 
Number two, the valuation gains of certain investee companies in verticals such as e-commerce. Number three, impairment provisions for investee companies in verticals such as FinTech and social entertainment. Operating profit was RMB53.1 billion, up 21% year-on-year and 1% quarter-on-quarter. Net finance costs were at RMB 1.9 billion, largely stable both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. Share of losses of associates and joint ventures were affect RMB 5.7 billion compared to share profit of RMB 2.6 billion last year. The movement reflected the impact on non-IFRS adjustment of certain associates. 
Increased investment in community grew by initiative by certain associates, as well as losses recognized from certain associates in the Social Media sector, partially offset by enhanced performance of certain associates in the e-commerce sector. On a non-IFRS basis, we record a shared losses of RMB 282 million this quarter for associates and joint ventures compared to share profit of RMB 3.2 billion a year ago. Income tax expense was RMB 5.5 billion this quarter. Effective tax rate for the quarter was 12%. IFRS net profit attributable to equity holders was RMB 39.5 billion, up 3% year-on-year or down 7% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 4 billion, up 3% year-on-year or down 7% quarter-on-quarter. 
Now, I'll share with you our non-IFRS financial figures. Operating profit was RMB 40.8 billion, up 7% year-on-year, or down 5% quarter-on-quarter. Net profit after NCI was RMB 31.8 billion, down 2% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter. Diluted EPS was RMB 3.269, down 1% year-on-year and 7% Q-on-Q. Moving on to gross margin, the overall gross margin was 44.1%, down 1.1 percentage points year-on-year and 1.3 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Breaking into segments, gross margin for value-added services was 53%, up 0.4 percentage point year-on-year, or lastly, stable Q-on-Q. Gross margin for online advertising was 46.4% down 4.5% points year-on-year or 2.4% points quarter-on-quarter. 
Both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter decrease reflected increased bandwidth and server costs including those associated with our Video Accounts service. Gross margin for FinTech and Business Services was 28.5% up 0.6% points year-on-year, or down 3.5% points quarter-on-quarter. The year-on-year increase was driven mix shift within FinTech services, partially offset by greater revenue contribution from lower margin Business Services. This sequential decline mainly reflected our continued investment in Cloud computing, including talents and operations. On operating expenses, selling and marketing were RMB10.4 billion, up 17% year-on-year, or 4% quarter-on-quarter. 
The Y-o-Y increase was finally driven by previous marketing spending on gains, as well as consolidation of Bitauto. As a percentage of revenues, selling and marketing expenses were 7% of revenues broadly stable compared to the first quarter of 2020. R&D expenses were RMB13.7 billion, up 39% year-on-year, or 7% Q-on-Q. R&D expenses represented approximately 10% of revenues. G&A expenses, including R&D, were RMB10.2 billion, up 39% year-on-year, or 3% quarter-on-quarter. Both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter increase reflected greater staff force. Excluding share-based compensation, G&A expenses increased by 23% year-on-year and 7% quarter-on-quarter. As the quarter end, we had approximately 107,000 employees, 38% year-on-year or 14% quarter-on-quarter, primarily due to our increased resources allocated to our strategic growth initiatives. 
Let's take a look at the operating and net margin ratios. For Fiscal Year 2021, non-IFRS operating margin was 20.7%, down 1.7 percentage points Y-on-Y, points Q-on-Q. non-IFRS net margin was 22.83%, 3.8 percentage points year-on-year, or 2.6 percentage points quarter-on-quarter. Finally, I will share with you some key financial metrics for the quarter. Total CapEx was RMB 7.1 billion, down 19% year-on-year or up 2% quarter-on-quarter Within total Capex, operating Capex was RMB 5.6 billion, down 28% year-on-year. Though our operating Capex increased 62% year-on-year to RMB 1.5 billion, reflecting higher spending on land use rights and building constructions. 
Free cash flow for the quarter was RMB 24.1 billion, down 14% year-on-year, or up 40% quarter-on-quarter. Net debt position was RMB 26.1 billion compared to RMB 21 billion last quarter, mainly reflecting cash flow for M&A activities and payment for purchase of share -- repurchase of shares partly offset by free cash flow generations and on market diversions subsidiary to securities. The share market value of our shareholdings in listed investing companies excluding subsidiaries, was approximately RMB1.2 trillion or $185 billion at the end of the quarter. We repurchased approximately 5.6 million shares with an aggregate cost of RMB2.2 billion or $334 million for the third quarter 2021. Thank you. We shall open for questions.
 Jane Yip
Operator, please invites for the question.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please stand by while we compile the question-and-answer roster. [Operator Instructions]. Your first question comes from the line of Piyush Mubayi from Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question.
Piyush Mubayi
Good evening, Martin, James, John, and Jane. And thank you for taking my question. My first question is about the buzzword that's floating around so many times nowadays. How would you assess your positioning in the Metaverse, the next iteration of the Internet? Do you see this as transformational or an extension of your current business models? And how would you size the opportunity versus the current estimates of the gaming industry that are north of $200 billion? And if I may slip in a second one on advertising. In light of the pricing challenges that you talked about where China macro, PIPL, and regulations all appear to be headwinds, how do you rank these sets of risks? And with regard to your comment on a re-basement in 2022, could add growth rates get back to double-digit growth rate sometime in 4Q or would it be sometime in 2022, in your opinion? Thank you.
Martin Lau 
On Metaverse, I think this is actually a very exciting, but a little bit vague concept. The way we look at Metaverse in terms of -- at a high level is that we felt anything that really makes the virtual world more real and making the real world richer with virtual experiences can actually become part of the Metaverse, big word. And as a result, we felt it's going to be an opportunity that really add the growth to the existing industries. For example, it will be an addition to the gaming industry. It will also be an addition to the social networking industry, and in some cases, when you have real-life applications like business applications, it actually also can be a growth engine for that industry too. 
And the reason is we felt that there are actually multiple pathways through which you can actually get into the Metaverse opportunity, for example, you can have a very interactive games, very high production, and open world type of games. You also can have multiple games under a common world view or IP. You can have a gaming platform that provide the infrastructure for people to create a lot of different games within the gaming platform. You can have a social network, which can be gamified and support much more programmable experiences. You also can have a real-world experience but augmented by -- augmented reality and virtual reality. 
So that's how we think about the different pathways through which you can get to Metaverse. Now, in terms of our capabilities and our positioning, we felt we actually have a lot of the technology and know-how building blocks for us to explore and develop for the Metaverse opportunity. For example, we have a lot of gaming experiences. We also have very strong social networking experience. In addition to that, in terms of technology building blocks, we have engine capability, we have AI capability, we have the capability to build large server architecture that can serve a huge number of concurrent users. 
We're very experienced in managing digital content economies as well as real life digital assets. So, all in all, we felt that we have a lot of tech and capability building blocks that will allow us to approach the Metaverse opportunities through the multiple pathways we talked about. Now, with advertising, I would pass to James.
James Mitchell 
Thank you, Piyush. You asked about the various challenges facing the China advertising market and how we would rank them. So, I think that in terms of size and immediacy, the regulations affecting industries such as education, the games, insurance, have the most substantial and fastest impact, and then the macro-environment is also impactful in that -- in very robust macro-environment and one would expect certain categories, slow advertising spending, other categories will leap into the gap and back-fill and take advantage of the lower prices and higher ROI. Since, I think, that will happen over time; but in a more challenging macro environment, it happens less quickly than in a more robust macro environment. 
Then in terms of the customer information protection law, and also you didn't mention it, but other people may want Apple's IDFA changes. Those are relatively less impactful. For the Personal Information Protection, though, we implemented that as of November 1. It is important to remember that people who choose to opt out still see ads, it's just the ads are less relevant to their needs. And we think that as a consequence, at least up till now, the opt-out rate has been very low single digits. And then for IDFA, you may be aware that in the United States and Western markets, there was effectively two shoes that dropped. 
The first one was, impact targeting ability, and then the second more impactful issue was impaired attribution’s ability. In China, we've been through the targeting challenge and the attribution challenge appears less, partly because the industry has a variety of mechanisms deriving attribution and partly because Apple only represents a teens percent of Internet traffic in China versus a much higher proportion in western markets so that's in terms of sizing -- prioritizing the various challenges. In terms of timing when advertising may resume a faster growth rate than -- obviously, it depends very much on any future regulations that emerge, as well as any future macro challenges that emerge. 
Putting those to one side, then a couple of observations, one is that I think our advertising comps are generally toughest in the first quarter of next year. In a normal year, the first quarter is seasonally a low quarter and then you see very strong sequential advertising revenue growth in the second and third quarters versus if you look at -- in 2021 that actually wasn't the case. So, we have a tough comp in first quarter '22 that then eases. And then secondly, while there are a number of categories that are weak and they tend to be the categories that would normally react most quickly for lower pricing but increasing in their volume. 
There are other categories that are still quite robust, including clothing, personal goods, healthcare, and so forth. Now, I believe, in general, these categories react more slowly. They make more human being driven ad buying decisions rather than the algorithmic ad buying decisions than a Mobile game or online education Company might. But it's a reality that because pricing has softened, therefore the ROI from buying ads improved. And so over time we would expect some of those slow-moving advertising categories to reassert themselves. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Charlene Liu from HSBC. Please go ahead.
Charlene Liu
Hi, management. Thank you very much for the opportunity and for taking my question. I want to follow up on the point that James was making on -- I think earlier on you discussed some of the challenged verticals that use education, games, and insurance, and whatnot. I was wondering if you can share a little bit more on how much do these verticals contribute to the advertising business? You also mentioned that we're seeing some green shoots, perhaps in segment like healthcare. Are these -- how much can they really make up for? The weaknesses that we're seeing in some of the challenged verticals that you discussed earlier. And I have a follow-up for online games. Thank you.
James Mitchell 
In terms of making up for weakness, we commented that we expect weakness to persist for several quarters. So, I want to emphasize the adjective separately. This is not something that we believe will return to prior trends immediately. In terms of how much those categories contribute, then directionally speaking, Games would be in the low to mid-teens. Education has dropped to low single-digits now, and Insurance is a subset of Finance, but again with the low single-digit percentage. 
In terms of categories that are relatively healthier than financial services ex insurance, and personal care products and clothing, food and beverage. For us, our transportation-related advertising is very strong and in part, reflects the reinvigoration of Bitauto and the injection of the video content [Indiscernible] share of automobile-related advertising and then healthcare. But as I mentioned, these categories tend to make their decisions on an annual or quarterly basis rather than a real-time basis. And so, when advertising pricing softens, as it has done, they don't react immediately.
Charlene Liu
Okay, great. I think on the online games front, in particular for overseas expansion, can you discuss what are some of the challenges you may anticipate a midst our overseas expansion efforts for online games? And can you also share some details on the pipeline? Thank you.
James Mitchell 
Well, in terms of the pipeline, both in domestic and the international business, we tend not to talk about games until their launch, or at least until they're very close to launch, but just looking at the slide and thinking about what's been publicly announced, TiMi and LightSpeed both announced a number of titles which are global IPs and you should expect to be released globally. They also have some other titles which are their own IPs which we also hope will succeed globally. Although time will tell whether that's the case or not. Riot has announced a number of games, including the mobile version of Valorant. Supercell has announced three flash-based games. Grinding Gear Games has announced Path of Exile 2. Fatshark's announced Darktide, so on and so forth. 
None of our studios are sitting still. A lot of them have new products in the pipeline and some of them are announced products, some of them are unannounced products, and therefore, a little bit further away. In terms of the challenges we face, I think that they're pretty similar to the challenges that other companies in the game industry face, just to touch on to the front of mind at the moment, one, is the war for talent. We believe that the game industry is really a talent-driven industry and so we spend a lot of time at our own studios and also with our investee and daughter studios working on the most appropriate compensation plans. 
Each situation is a little bit different, but in general, we want our studios to be in a position where they can reward the people who contribute very handsomely, and I think we remain in that good position going forward bec