Western Digital Corporation (NASDAQ:WDC) Q4 2021 Earnings Conference Call August  4, 2021  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Peter Andrew - VP, IR
David Goeckeler - Chief Executive Officer
Robert Eulau - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Conference Call Participants
Joseph Moore - Morgan Stanley
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Securities
C.J. Muse - Evercore ISI
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Karl Ackerman - Cowen & Company
Mehdi Hosseini - Susquehanna International Group
Wamsi Mohan - Bank of America 
James Suva - Citigroup
Patrick Ho - Stifel Nicolaus
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Thomas O'Malley - Barclays
Sidney Ho - Deutsche Bank
Shannon Cross - Cross Research
Nikolay Todorov - Longbow Research
Ananda Baruah - Loop Capital
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC Nikko Securities
Mark Miller - The Benchmark Group
Tristan Gerra - Robert W. Baird & Co
Operator
Good afternoon, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Western Digital's Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2021 Analyst Call. Personally all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will open the lines up for questions shortly. [Operator Instructions]
Now I will turn the call over to Mr. Peter Andrew. You may begin.
Peter Andrew
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me today are David Goeckeler, Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Eulau, Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking statements, including product portfolio expectations, business plans, trends and financial outlook based on management's current assumptions and expectations, and as such, does include risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update these statements. Please refer to our most recent report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
We will also make references to non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release and other materials that are being posted in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to David for his introductory comments.
David Goeckeler
Thank you, Peter. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021 results. We reported solid fourth quarter results with revenue of $4.9 billion, non-GAAP gross margin of 33% and non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.16, all above the guidance ranges we provided in April.
The upside was primarily driven by record demand for our capacity enterprise hard drives. Fiscal year 2021 revenue totaled $16.9 billion and we reported non-GAAP earnings per share of $04.55. Last March I joined Western Digital with a strong conviction in the digital transformation that is reshaping every industry, every company, and every person's day-to-day life. At that time, we were in the early stages of the pandemic.
Today the accelerated digital transformation that has occurred during this period has created a world that is more technology enabled and technology dependent than ever before. The increasing value and importance of data is undeniable and Western Digital will continue to capitalize on this opportunity as the only provider of both flash and hard drive solutions. Our ability to provide this diverse range of technologies enables us to drive innovation from endpoints to the edge to the cloud and combined with our commitment to delivering the highest quality products, is ultimately what sets us apart and allows us to deliver strong results.
As we reflect on this fiscal year, I'm very proud of what Western Digital has accomplished, particularly in light of the fact that the pandemic impacted various aspects of our company and the supply chain. As a team we made the changes throughout the year necessary to improve our focus, sharpen execution, and layout the right strategic goals to place Western Digital in a position of greater strength. To achieve these goals we created separate business units for our flash and HDD technologies, led by two widely respected technology leaders.
As a result of this renewed focus, we accelerated our innovation roadmap, built momentum in our energy-assisted hard drives and continue to successfully ramp our second generation NVMe enterprise SSDs, while working hard to complete additional customer qualifications. We were also able to successfully navigate through the pandemic and capitalize on opportunities and continue providing dependable industry-leading products that are the cornerstones of the data economy.
We continue to believe that we have the right foundation for success, the right market-leading products, the right customer base and the unique ability to address two large and growing markets. That foundation continues to underpin the strength of our results and is propelling the business forward today, even as we manage through some of the lingering impacts from COVID.
And while we saw incremental demand due to the emergence of Chia, our standout performance this quarter was primarily attributable to increasing demand from our cloud customers and the beginning of a recovery in enterprise demand. The breadth and quality of our product line and our many routes to market, we feel we are well positioned to capitalize on the large and growing opportunities in front of us.
With that, I'll now provide a recap of our flash and HDD businesses as it relates to our fourth quarter results. In the fourth quarter demand for our flash products was greater than we could supply in a number of end markets. In the face of both component and NAND shortages, we continue to strategically shift bits to meet customer needs while driving growth in both revenue and gross margin.
Within data center devices and solutions demand for our NVMe enterprise SSDs came in above our expectations, achieving strong quarter-over-quarter revenue growth, we are pleased with our progress in enterprise SSDs as we completed the qualification of another cloud Titan and are ramping the product more broadly.
Within client SSD, we experienced revenue growth as demand remained strong for notebooks and Chromebooks. This remains a large growing and an important end market for Western Digital across our OEM channel and retail routes to market. Within gaming, demand from the latest generation of game consoles, and our WD Black product line was robust as gamers continued to prefer our expanding lineup of customized solutions.
Within embedded flash, we also experienced growth in smart home devices, VR, automotive and industrial. As the BiCS5 ramp picks up and we achieve bit crossover late this year, we expect to see increased bit growth. To-date BiCS5 is our most capital efficient node in the 3D era and the ramp across our product lines will contribute to profitable growth. We have had incredible success with BiCS4 from across cost and bit growth perspective and look forward to experience those same benefits with BiCS5 highlighting once again the successful and important partnership we have with Kioxia.
In HDD, we had our highest organic sequential revenue growth in the last decade, driven by the successful ramp of our 18-terabyte energy-assisted hard drive, growing cloud demand, a recovery in enterprise spending, and to a lesser extent crypto currency driven by Chia. This impressive performance is a reflection of our data center customers confidence in our innovation engine for capacity enterprise hard drives.
Shipments for our 18teribyte hard drive nearly tripled sequentially, highlighting our leadership in the latest capacity point and the leading edge energy-assist technology underpinning it. These drives are fully commercialized we expect the 18 terabyte hard drive to be the workhorse for the fiscal year. I'm excited to announce a record shipment of over 104 exabytes in capacity enterprise hard drives, a 49% increase sequentially. This is a significant achievement for the business as we have all of our largest customers qualified and are well into ramping our energy-assisted hard drives.
In addition, client demand for desktop and smart video has been strong throughout the quarter due to improving OEM demand. While we are actively managing supply constraints, we expect strength in OEM to continue in the fiscal first quarter. Within retail HDD demand was above expectations as we saw consumer interest grow for both at home HDD storage and for smart video applications.
There was also increased demand for hard drives due to Proof-of-space crypto currencies such as Chia, which emerged as a new vertical market at the beginning of the quarter. We believe Proof-of-space crypto currency presents a great opportunity for us in the industry, but we are closely monitoring the sustainability of demand. Looking ahead, we strongly believe the fundamental technology shift that I referenced earlier is a sustainable trend. At the center of this innovation are ever-increasing intelligent devices which are fueling exponential industry-wide growth in demand, all powered by the cloud.
The ability to harness the data in both the device and in the data center is critical, highlighting the importance of our full range of storage solutions. Moreover, we believe we have the right portfolio to enable us to capture these opportunities. In particular, and as Dr. Siva Sivaram, President of Technology and Strategy discussed in a webcast on July 15, Western Digital's unique ability to deliver both HDD and flash solutions drives meaningful synergies across the business in four key areas; market, manufacturing, technology and customer. And our new operating structure gives us the focus we need to capture our full potential.
While we remain optimistic, there are several factors we are closely monitoring. Most importantly, we are actively managing the continued impact of the pandemic. The disruptions to the supply chain have presented a challenge across the industry and we continue to see shortages of certain components. Additionally, logistics remain a challenge as different geographies are in various stages of reopening. This has been a major contributor to increase lead times and may pose challenges in the future.
As a result of the supply disruptions, logistics challenges and increased lead times, we continue to face additional cost pressures. Despite these obstacles, we are working diligently to continue delivering to our customers while maintaining a disciplined approach to pricing.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob, to share details on our financial results.
Robert Eulau
Thank you and good afternoon everyone. As Dave mentioned, overall results for the fiscal fourth quarter were above the upper end of the guidance ranges provided in April. Total revenue for the quarter was $4.9 billion, up 19% sequentially and up 15% year-over-year. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $2.16. For the full fiscal year, revenue was $16.9 billion, up 1% from fiscal 2020 and non-GAAP EPS was $4.55, up 50% from last year.
Looking at our end markets, Client Devices revenue was $2.2 billion, up 8% sequentially and up 13% year-over-year. On a sequential basis, we experienced revenue growth in both hard drives and flash and across every major product category; client HDDs, client SSDs, automotive, gaming, smart video and industrial. Mobile revenue was essentially flat on a sequential basis.
Moving on to Data Center Devices and Solutions, revenue was $1.8 billion, up 44% sequentially and up 6% from a year ago. New product ramps in this end market drove more than double the revenue growth from just two quarters ago. Revenue generated from our latest generation energy-assisted hard drives and enterprises SSDs contributed to the growth. Our capacity enterprise hard drives grew 49% sequentially and our enterprise SSDs grew 39% sequentially.
Demand for our 18-terabyte energy-assisted hard drives was particularly strong, comprising nearly half of our capacity enterprise exabytes shipments. Finally, Client Solutions revenue was $977 million, up 10% sequentially and up 42% from a year ago. Once again revenue growth was broad based across both HDD and flash and all major product categories.
Turning to revenue by technology, flash revenue was $2.4 billion, up 11% sequentially and up 8% year-over-year. Flash ASPs were up 7% sequentially on a blended basis and up 4% on a like-for-like basis. Flash bit shipments increased 4% sequentially. Hard drive revenue was $2.5 billion, up 28% sequentially and up 22% year-over-year. On a sequential basis, total hard drive exabyte shipments increased 34%, while the average price per hard drive increased 18% to $97.
As we move to costs and expenses, please note that my comments will be related to non-GAAP results unless stated otherwise. Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 32.9%, up 5.2 percentage points sequentially. This was above the upper end of the guidance range provided in April. Our broad routes to market and ability to proactively ship bits to the most attractive end markets enabled us to expand our gross margin by 5.5 percentage points sequentially to 35.5%.
Our hard drive gross margin was 30.3% up 5.3 percentage points sequentially. This also includes a COVID-related impact of $32 million or approximately $1.3 percentage points. Operating expenses were $790 million within our guidance range. Operating income was $828 million representing 101% increase from the prior quarter and a 57% increase year-over-year. With our improving profitability, our tax rate in the fiscal fourth quarter was 9.2% and the tax rate was 13.4% for fiscal year 2021. Earnings per share was $2.16.
Operating cash flow for the fourth quarter was $994 million and free cash flow was $792 million. Capital expenditures, which include the purchase of property, plant and equipment, and activity related to our flash joint ventures on our cash flow statement was an outflow of $202 million. We expect growth CapEx for the next fiscal year to be approximately $3 billion and cash CapEx to be around $2 billion.
In the fiscal fourth quarter we paid off $212 million in debt, including a discretionary debt payment of $150 million. For the full fiscal year we paid down a total of $886 million. Our gross debt outstanding was $8.8 billion at the end of the fiscal quarter. Additionally, we have already made a discretionary debt payment of $150 million in the fiscal first quarter.
Our adjusted EBITDA as defined in our credit agreement was $3.6 billion, resulting in a gross leverage ratio of 2.4 times compared to 2.8 a year ago. As a reminder, our credit agreement includes $1 billion in depreciation add back associated with the joint ventures. This is not reflected in our cash flow statement. Please refer to the earnings presentation on the investor relations website for further details. Our liquidity position continues to be strong. At the end of the quarter, we had $3.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have unused revolver capacity of $2.25 billion.
Moving on to our outlook, our fiscal first quarter non-GAAP guidance is as follows; we expect revenue to be in the range of $4.9 billion to $5.1 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 33% and 35%. We expect hard drive gross margin to be relatively flat and we expect flash gross margin to improve sequentially.
We expect operating expenses to be between $755 million and $785 million. Interest and other expense is expected to be approximately $70 million. The tax rate is expected to be between 11% and 12% in the fiscal first quarter and the fiscal year. We expect earnings per share to between $2.25 and $2.55 in the first quarter assuming approximately $317 million fully diluted shares outstanding.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Dave.
David Goeckeler
Thanks Bob. As we close out fiscal year 2021, I am very pleased with how the Western Digital team successfully navigated dynamic market conditions brought on by the pandemic. While it has been a challenging time for all, we will continue to focus on driving innovation. When you combine the ramp of new innovation products into two very large and growing markets with our newly adapted organization structure, I am confident that our increased focus on execution will continue to propel us forward as the market leaders.
Our diverse technology portfolio is the foundation of the data economy and our unique ability to see the entire storage market enables us to move across the technology landscape to meet customers' needs and be the solution for their evolving storage challenges. With careful consideration of the health and safety of our employees, we are also keeping a close eye on the status of COVID-19. In particular, there are certain parts of Asia seeing a spike in cases and we are working diligently to support our employees through this time. While it is a difficult situation, we will continue to navigate the complexities presented by the pandemic while we drive innovation for customers and value for shareholders.
Let’s begin the Q&A session.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Joseph Moore
Great, thank you. I wonder if you could talk about the tightness in NAND that you referenced, to what degree is that a NAND issue versus controllers and kind of other components trickle [ph] into NAND products?
David Goeckeler
Hey Joe, good to hear from you. So, it's both. There’s no doubt there is shortage in controllers and I think what we are doing is mixing the portfolio to get the most out of the controllers we have, also a shortage of NAND as well. So I mean, we're mixing to get the best result we can, but there’s more demand than we are able to satisfy on the NAND side. So, it’s really, we are juggling both and balancing them to get the best result we can.
Joseph Moore
Okay and as, you guide for the September quarter is the assumption that you’re still kind of supply constrained for the whole quarter?
David Goeckeler
Yes, we are still juggling both of those things. Right? We have customers looking for upside, we are juggling that. Mixes is a little different from quarter to quarter as well. So yes, when you roll all that together is how you to get -- get to where we are at in Q1.
Joseph Moore
Great, thank you very much.
David Goeckeler
Sure thing.
Operator
Thank you. We have a question from Aaron Rakers from Wells Fargo.
Aaron Rakers
Yes, thanks for taking the question and congratulations from the solid results. I want to ask about the hard disc drives, the 49% sequential growth in your year line capacity shift and I’m curious that, how are you thinking about the sustainability of that demand? I think last quarter you talked a little bit about longer term purchase agreement, and then if you can underneath of that also any thoughts of how significant Chia was as far as a contribution this last quarter? Thank you.
David Goeckeler
Yes, thanks, Aaron. So we did see very, very strong demand from the cloud and I think the product has been very well received. As we've talked about energy-assist is fully commercialized now. We saw very strong sequential growth of the AT&T product. We continue to see strong growth in the second half, working with our customers. We expect continued growth in the business.
The long-term agreements, I think we're, I think, probably the best way to think about that as we're working through the first cohort of those and we expect to talk about the second cohort in the second half, and they're becoming more and more important, because getting visibility and the demand is very important, especially going forward is where we're thinking about how to invest in additional head capacity to support the growth of the business, just the exabyte growth.
Chia was, maybe one way to think about that, it was hitting us kind of right where we were on the call was, I think the first week of it last quarter, probably a couple $100 million of upside there in the quarter due to Chia.
Aaron Rakers
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from C.J. Muse from Evercore.
C.J. Muse
Yes, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess, I'm having a hard time reconciling the strong demand trends outlined here on the call with revenues only guided up 2% sequentially. So can you walk through, I guess, where you're seeing supply constraints both HDD and NAND? And are you seeing one more so than the other? And then perhaps to help us understand your, I presumed improving visibility, did your backlog grow sequentially into the June quarter and do you expect it to grow again exiting September? Thank you.
David Goeckeler
Yes, so it was an exceptional quarter on growth and there is tightness across both portfolios, there's no doubt about that. We were pushing the factories very, very hard to get every drive we could out of it, because there was demand for it. So when you look at it sequentially, we had a strong quarter and we were basically able to find sales for everything that we could produce.
And, so going, so when you look at sequential growth, I guess it's not surprising that there's not a huge amount of top line growth there. But throughout the markets, we continue to, so hard drives we see strength in the cloud. We're seeing really good strength in kind of mid cap as well. It's not just at the top of the market. But on the flat side, again, we've got more customers looking for upside than we do the opposite. So the demand environment is good and we're doing the best we can to satisfy as much as they can with the components we have and with the NAND available.
Operator
Our next question comes from Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs.
Toshiya Hari
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks so much for taking the question and congrats on the very strong results. I had a question on NAND. I think costs in the quarter were up a little bit on a sequential basis. I realize cost downs on a quarterly basis can be very lumpy, and you're coming off a multi quarter stretch of very strong cost downs, but curious what you saw in the quarter from a cost perspective in NAND. And I think in your prepared remarks, Dave, you talked about, your expectations for BiCS4, BiCS5 I'm sorry, being similar to the BiCS4 the ramp, BiCS5 over the next 12 months. If you can kind of set expectations and how we should think about cost downs as you make that transition that will be super helpful? Thank you.
Robert Eulau
Hey, Toshiya, it's Bob. So in terms of the cost takedowns, we actually looked at it mostly year-over-year, and we were a little bit ahead of the 15% goal we have for year-over-year cost declines and continue to feel good about 15% as the long-term goal. We are starting the nodal transition. We did this past quarter to BiCS5 and we'll continue to ramp that hard through the second half. As Dave mentioned, we expect to get the crossover in the fourth calendar quarter. So I think in terms of costs, I think we're in a good place.
Toshiya Hari
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Karl Ackerman from Cowen.
Karl Ackerman
Yes, good afternoon, gentlemen. I know forecasting ASPS is difficult, but your implied outlook seems to suggest a decline in hard drive pricing, similar with what you saw last year. And I was wondering, should we assume that your assumption for hard drive gross margins is driven by less favorable mix of retail draws? And as you address that question, could you discuss the mix of long-term agreements you have in place today for nearline drives, and whether those are negotiated both on price and volume or just volume? Thank you.
Robert Eulau
Hi, Karl, it's Bob. I'll start and then Dave can add in. But in terms of the guide on hard drives, we aren't actually guiding specifically by segment. We had really good gross margins on hard drives this quarter above 30% and we're expecting our gross margins to be above 30%, again in Q1 so we feel good about that. And, as we've said, we really want to continue to improve from here. We're going to be very judicious in terms of how we add capacity, because we want to continue to improve our margins over time.
David Goeckeler
Yes, Karl and the long term agreements, we kind of think about those as setting a baseline for volume and price. It doesn't mean that's going to be everything that goes into a certain customer, but it sets a baseline and gives us some visibility over multiple quarters. Like I said, we're kind of working our way through the first cohort of those, and we'll be looking at the second ones in the second half of the year. As I said, I do think they're becoming more important to give us the visibility we need on demand to make sure we make the right investments to support the exabyte growth.
Karl Ackerman
Thank you.
Peter Andrew
Hilda, can we get the next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini from SIG.
Mehdi Hosseini
Yes, thanks for taking my question, and the first one is for David. Over the past few quarters, you have exceeded your guide by 40%, 50% and I understand there is the supply chain disruption and you want to be prudent. But there's perhaps, there is also some level of conservatism that goes into your guide. And then for Bob, I understand exabyte shipment is improving to September quarter, but I do understand is why is gross margin guidance flattish? Thank you.
David Goeckeler
Yes, I mean, there's always some natural conservatism, I think in anything we do. But we also, you know, there's a fair amount of leverage in the model in this quarter we saw when we overachieved on the top line and we get benefit from the tax rate. So and we also had a better pricing environment on drives than we expected, which is, which was great. We took advantage of it. I think we had a market situation that was very, very dynamic. And the team really did a good job of managing through that and getting the most out of that we possibly could. So it was a very dynamic quarter.
And also, we're still managing through COVID, which is, there's still a lot of supply chain issues we're working through. I mean, we've been working through these for a long time now and we're very good at managing that. But there is still some risk out there because of that. And so we want to be prudent around the whole business, but we feel good about where we're at. We're very happy with the quarter. Like I said, I think we got the most out of a good situation and really, really driven by strong demand on the cloud and bringing innovation to market. I mean, I think that's the way I think about this.
We brought energy-assist to market. We've been talking about it for many quarters now. We've been giving a lot of visibility into the -- to the qualification process, because it is new technology that's been worked on for a very, very long time. And I think our customers are responding very strongly to that and we saw that in the results and the sequential capacity enterprise, exabyte shipments of 49% to really a record level. So we feel really good about where the portfolio is at and customers are really responding to it.
Robert Eulau
So Mehdi, on gross margin, I mean, first of all, we're really pleased with the 5.2 percentage point increase we had in gross margin going from Q3 to Q4. And if you look at the guidance for Q1, it's a range of 33% to 35%. So it's at the midpoint, we're still expecting to see improving gross margin. As I mentioned a few minutes ago, we're expecting hard drive gross margin to be above 30% again and in terms of the flash side, it will obviously improve, but the mix is different each quarter. And we're going to improve our gross margins and probably don't have quite as healthy a mix, as we had in Q4. But again, still feel really good about the guidance range and I think it will deliver very good margin and very good profitability.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Wamsi Mohan from Bank of America.
Wamsi Mohan
Yes, thank you, and congrats on the really strong results. I was hoping maybe I'm sorry, if I missed this, but can you help handicap the magnitude of impact to top line and margins from the ongoing supply chain issues and the best way that possible? And also for the guide, is there a way to handicap that and Dave, you mentioned the couple of $100 million benefit in the quarter from Chia. I was wondering, do you think that that sustains at some level, as you look into your guide do you have any expectation baked in the guide as well? Thank you.
David Goeckeler
That sustains from Chia. I think we're -- Chia had a big impact on the channel and inventory and it's going to take a little while for that all to normalize. So I think you have a lingering impact there. We're certainly watching overall demand, but it's tapered off from where it was, let's say mid quarter. But clearly a space we're watching. We're watching very closely. I'll ask Bob to comment as well. So it is a little hard to handicap what you're -- I think you're asking, which is how much upside is there if we had all the components we could possibly get?
I do think what we do is, with what we have, we change the mix in the portfolio to get the best we can and put the product at the best route to market, whether it's in the channel or somewhere or into retail or somewhere else where we can get the best return for that particular component. But I don't know, Bob do you have any way, not to put you on the spot, but feel free to handicap that from a numbers perspective?
Robert Eulau
No, it's really hard to say. I mean, as Dave said, I mean, particularly on that channel side, we shift a lot during the quarter. So our inventory levels are low there. If you really forced us to guess on the fourth quarter, maybe we missed out on $50 million to $100 million in revenue. But it's very hard to quantify what we would have been able to do had w