Western Digital Corporation (NASDAQ:WDC) Q3 2020 Results Earnings Conference Call April 30, 2020  4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Peter Andrew - VP of IR
David Goeckeler - CEO
Robert Eulau - Executive VP & CFO
Conference Call Participants
Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo
Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley
Karl Ackerman - Cowen
Sidney Ho - Deutsche Bank
Mehdi Hosseini - SIG
C.J. Muse - Evercore
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs
Mike Cadiz - Citigroup
Mitch Steves - RBC Capital Markets
Steven Fox - Fox Advisors
Srini Pajjuri - SMBC Nikko Securities
Harlan Sur - JPMorgan
Tristan Gerra - Baird
Weston Twigg - KeyBanc Capital
Operator
Good afternoon. And thank you for standing by. Welcome to Western Digital's Fiscal Third Quarter 2020 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr. Peter Andrew. You may begin.
Peter Andrew
Okay. Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Joining me today are David Goeckeler, Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Eulau, Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion does contain forward-looking statements, including product development expectations, business plans, trends and financial outlook based on management's current assumptions and expectations and as such, does include risks and uncertainties. We assume no obligation to update these statements. Please refer to our most recent financial report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
We will also make references to non-GAAP financial measures today. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release, and other materials that are being posted in the Investor Relations section of our website.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to David.
David Goeckeler
Thanks, Peter. I would like to thank everyone for joining us this afternoon, and I hope that you and your families are well given the COVID-19 pandemic we are all facing.
I joined Western Digital a little over a month ago because I have strong conviction in the digital transformation that is reshaping every industry, every company and how all of us live our daily lives. This transition will continue to rapidly increase the amount of data generated, stored and consumed in the world.
Western Digital is uniquely positioned to accelerate and benefit from this transformation as the only company providing a broader array of NAND flash, SSD and HDD solutions. We have a strong portfolio, established footprint, operational scale, brand and great customer relationships from the cloud to the edge to the endpoint. On today's call, we'll discuss what we're doing to position the company for continued success and to be best prepared to capture the significant opportunities in front of us.
While I couldn't have anticipated the unprecedented series of events that have transpired since I joined the company on March 9, I do believe that the underpinnings of the technology architecture we are all now leveraging on a daily basis has been well established over the past several years. The public cloud rapidly accelerating innovation across a wide array of increasingly intelligent devices, all brought together by high-speed networks.
All elements of this architecture are continually upgraded, new cloud APIs, new and more powerful edge and endpoint capabilities and emerging 5G networks. Increased capabilities across any point of this architecture drive incremental opportunity for all that participate in the ecosystem.
Data is the critical component that unlocks value across this ecosystem, and our portfolio is well positioned from the cloud to the edge to the endpoint. I'm confident our team's innovation in NAND and HDD technologies will drive significant new opportunity for our customers and value for our shareholders. As you can probably tell, I'm excited to be here and see great opportunities for Western Digital.

Before we review our results for the third quarter, I would like to address how we are operating amid the COVID-19 pandemic. First and foremost, our priority is to ensure the health, safety and well-being of our employees, customers and suppliers. We are carefully following precautionary measures and best practices across our global sites and all production facilities remain operational.
We encountered some supply disruptions in the quarter. However, due to the efforts of our operations team, we saw supply trends improve as the quarter progressed. We also incurred additional costs associated with logistics and other manufacturing activity.
Demand remained strong in the third quarter as expected. Revenue was $4.2 billion, right at the midpoint of the guidance provided in January.
We experienced healthy demand from our major cloud customers throughout the quarter and maintained our leading position in the capacity enterprise drive category. The current environment has accelerated the movement to the cloud, transforming the way businesses operate, students learn, and the way friends and families connect. These trends will continue to drive innovation and data storage growth for a number of years, and we are well positioned.
High-capacity hard drives are the foundation to enabling the world's essential zettabyte scale data infrastructure, providing unmatched capacity and TCO efficiency. Our 14-terabyte products continued to perform well, and industry analysts expect this capacity point to remain the industry's highest volume drive, at least through the third quarter of calendar 2020.
We are leading the industry in bringing next-generation energy-assisted drives to market as we recognize revenue for our 16- and 18-terabyte drives during the quarter. Customer interest in these products, specifically our 18-terabyte drive is very high and the ramp is on schedule.
Customer acceptance of our enterprise SSDs continue to grow. Our latest 96-layer NVMe-based SSDs have completed more than 20 qualifications with well over 100 qualifications in progress at multiple cloud and OEM customers worldwide.
Demand for our notebook solutions was greater than expected due to the shift to working from home and e-learning. We experienced record client SSD revenue during the quarter and expect continued growth in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Desktop hard drive revenue was down due to normal seasonality and a shift towards mobile notebook solutions. In addition, smart video hard drive demand was softer than expected as a result of COVID-19.
Mobile flash bit shipments remained modest in the quarter, as we strategically managed our exposure to this part of the market. Retail was particularly affected by COVID-19 in a typically seasonally weaker quarter. As we approached the end of the quarter, we experienced a decline in demand from traditional brick-and-mortar retailers as they started to temporarily close their stores. While many retailers shifted to curbside pickup and began pushing sales through their online channels, we expect physical store closures will create a headwind in our fiscal fourth quarter.
Finally, new game consoles are expected to come to market shortly that are reimagining the next-generation of gaming. These new platforms not only utilize nearly one terabit of - terabyte of internal flash storage, but also empower new cloud-based services for gamers, streamers and content creators that will drive incremental cloud storage demand. We remain on track to ship into this new and growing part of the market in the coming quarter.
Turning our outlook for the fourth quarter. Demand remains strong, and we expect growth in revenue and profitability. Of course, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to create a very dynamic environment for us to manage, but our teams are performing well. Bob will go through the details of our Q4 guidance.

I am convinced that Western Digital will play an increasingly vital role in the digital transformation underway. The combination of right products, customer engagement and end markets focus provides tremendous opportunities for us.
Flash holds the greatest long-term growth opportunity for Western Digital. As I mentioned previously, the migration to flash within gaming consoles is yet another example of flash penetrating deeper into the edge and endpoint. The adoption of 5G and the build-out of the edge to support a new generation of real-time services is another exciting development. We see an expanding TAM for flash that will enable a multiyear growth opportunity.
In hard drives, we have already aligned our portfolio to capitalize on long-term growth areas. Our technology and products are indispensable to the growth of the public cloud, the seminal technology trend of our era. We are the first to market with next-generation energy-assisted drives, and we will continue to deliver new innovations to build upon our aerial density leadership.
I joined Western Digital to be at the center of this incredible opportunity, innovating in one of the critical building blocks of the digital world, storage. Given the breadth and strength of our portfolio and the attractive markets we operate in, we need to best position the company for ongoing success.
As a result, we have made the decision to suspend our dividend in order to reinvest in the business and support our deleveraging efforts. Bob will go into more details on our deleveraging objectives.
Before I turn the call over to Bob, I'd like to take a moment to thank the entire Western Digital team, who have come together during this challenging time. It's been incredible to see the support, teamwork and leadership displayed across all levels. Together, I am confident we will get through this and emerge stronger than before.
I will now ask Bob to share our financial highlights.
Robert Eulau
Thanks, Dave, and welcome to Western Digital. As Dave mentioned, the world has changed in the last few months. I'm impressed by how well the Western Digital team has come together and navigated through this challenging quarter. Results in the fiscal third quarter were generally in line with the guidance provided in January as demand held up well in most of our end markets. We had COVID-19-related impacts, which I will detail in a few minutes.
Revenue was $4.2 billion, down 1% sequentially and up 14% from a year ago. By end market, Client Devices revenue of $1.8 billion was up 2% on a sequential basis and increased 13% year-over-year. Record client SSD revenue drove most of the sequential and year-over-year growth. As we look into the fiscal fourth quarter, we anticipate client SSD will experience another strong quarter of revenue growth.
Notebook and PC-related hard drive revenue declined and now represents under 20% of our total HDD revenue. Smart video was a bit weaker than expected, primarily due to COVID-19.
And finally, while mobile was up sequentially and year-over-year, we remain under-indexed to this part of the market. Data center devices and solutions revenue of $1.5 billion was up 2% sequentially and up nearly 22% year-over-year. Capacity enterprise hard drive revenue was flat on a sequential basis, while enterprise SSD revenue grew.
Client Solutions revenue was $821 million, down 13% sequentially and up 2% year-over-year. Our retail business was impacted as we approached the end of the quarter due to COVID-19-related lockdown. These lockdowns will have an impact on our fiscal fourth quarter.
Demand remains strong in our end markets as we look into the fiscal fourth quarter. Growth in client devices and data center devices and solutions should more than offset the decline in client solutions.

By product category, flash revenue was $2.1 billion, up 12% sequentially and up 28% year-over-year. Flash ASPs were up 5% sequentially and bit shipments were up 7% sequentially. As we look into the fiscal fourth quarter demand for our flash-based solutions remains strong, and we anticipate that flash prices will rise on a sequential basis.
Hard drive revenue was $2.1 billion, down 12% sequentially and up 2% year-over-year. On a sequential basis, the average price per hard drive increased 5% to $85, and exabyte shipments were down 6%.
As we move on to cost and expenses, please note, all of my comments will be related to non-GAAP results unless stated otherwise with COVID-19 impacts detailed where appropriate.
Gross margin for the third quarter was up two percentage points sequentially to 27.9%. The start-up costs of our fab in Kitakami, K1, were $62 million and the COVID-19-related costs in the quarter were $13 million. For clarity, both items are included in the reported non-GAAP gross margin. The COVID-19 costs were primarily related to reduced factory utilization and higher logistics and other costs.
Our flash gross margin was 26.5%, up seven percentage points from last quarter due to a stronger pricing environment and cost reductions. In the quarter, we began to ship production units out of K1.
The hard drive gross margin declined to 29.3% from 30.8% in the prior quarter, mostly due to the COVID-19 impact and mix shifts.
Operating expenses were $738 million, slightly lower than expected. Other income and expense was $91 million, higher than expected due to unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements. The tax rate came in at 23.5% in the quarter, which was lower than our prior range of 25% to 27% for the full year.
We now estimate our fiscal year 2020 tax rate to be between 24% and 25%. Earnings per share was $0.85. Operating cash flow for the third quarter was $142 million, and free cash flow was $176 million. Our free cash flow was better than expected in a quarter that is usually seasonally low. So far, in fiscal 2020, we have generated $847 million in free cash flow and expect to generate very good cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Capital expenditures, which include the purchase of property, plant and equipment and activity related to flash ventures on our cash flow statement, were an inflow of $34 million due to the timing of funds flowing back and forth to the joint venture. For the full fiscal year, we expect cash, capital expenditures to be an inflow of a couple hundred million dollars.
Gross capital expenditures, which includes our portion of joint venture leasing and self-operating funding, is expected to be approximately $1.7 billion this fiscal year. We are assessing our fiscal 2021 capital expenditures based on the current economic environment.
Our liquidity position continues to be strong. At the end of the quarter, we had $2.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents, and our gross debt outstanding was $9.8 billion. In the fiscal third quarter, we distributed $149 million in dividends to our shareholders and made an optional $150 million debt paydown. Fiscal year-to-date, we've lowered our debt by about $920 million.
Our first priority for cash utilization is to reinvest in the business. Since we are suspending our dividend, our second priority is repayment of debt. Our current plan is to reevaluate the dividend and other shareholder return policies, and our total debt is under $6 billion and our net debt is under $3 billion. Our goal through a cycle is to have a growth leverage in the range of one to 3.5 times EBITDA. Our current debt-to-EBITDA leverage was 5.0 times in the third quarter.
I want to make it clear, suspending the dividend is not related to our debt covenants. We have substantial room under our covenants.

Moving on to non-GAAP guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter. We expect revenue to be in the range of $4.25 billion to $4.45 billion. Gross margin is expected to be between 29% and 31%. This range includes approximately $65 million in costs associated with the K1 fab. We're also anticipating the impact of COVID-19.
Operating expenses are expected to be between $740 million and $760 million. The midpoint of the guidance range assumes normal variable compensation expense. Interest and other expense is expected to be between $75 million and $80 million. The tax rate should be between 24% and 25%. As a result of this detailed guidance, we expect earnings per share between $1 and $1.40, assuming approximately $302 million in fully diluted shares. We're using a wider range this quarter, primarily due to the uncertainty in the environment.
With that, we will now begin the Q&A session. Operator, we're ready for our first question.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Aaron Rakers with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Aaron Rakers
It's Aaron Rakers from Wells. Maybe I'll start with just asking about it. I think on Slide eight in the prior presentation, you guys gave some commentary around the outlook that you have for the flash business as far as industry supply bit growth, as well as your expectation, I think previously noting that you'd expected mid-30% growth on enterprise, high-capacity nearline drive shipments for the full year.
And on the second point, can you just - it looks like you definitely kind of underperformed some of your peers on nearline. Just if you could help us understand what you're seeing in that market relative to the performance we've seen out of your competitors?
David Goeckeler
So the first question, I missed part of it, but it sounded like that was on aligning a supply and demand of bit growth in the second half of the year. So look, I mean, let me start out with what we're seeing right now. I mean, we saw good demand. We saw, as Bob talked about, margins up this quarter.
We're - next quarter was, as we expected and as we guided, margins up again. Obviously, as we get into the second half of the year, things get a little more difficult to really project. I think we're looking at various different recovery scenarios and how we will invest in those, and we'll be prudent about how we do that.
On the nearline side, I mean, look, we're happy with where the product performed. The 14-terabyte is still performing well. 18-terabyte shipped for revenue this quarter, as we talked about. That we made that commitment, we delivered on that. The ramp is on schedule. We see great interest from that. There's no doubt we're in a little bit of a product transition in the industry, and that will play out over the next couple of quarters, but we're happy with where the portfolio is. Bob, do you have anything to add?
Robert Eulau
No, I think that's a good summary. I mean, we're ramping as planned.
Aaron Rakers
Okay. And then, Bob, just as a quick follow-up, if I can. I know you mentioned that you've got an ample amount of room as far as your covenants. At 5 times debt-to-adjusted EBITDA, can you just remind us again what those covenants are? What the thresholds look like? I think it was a little bit lower than that. So just refresh us again on the covenants and when maybe covenants change going forward?
Robert Eulau
Yes. So the covenants are related to an adjusted EBITDA number that we use for compliance purposes. And so that the ratio is well below the five we show as a non-GAAP debt-to-EBITDA number. And we, as you saw, made progress in the quarter. Our gross leverage went from 5.7 to 5.0 this quarter. So we're definitely trending in the right direction. And as I said, we have plenty of room under the covenant. We just haven't given a lot of specifics on the actual compliance covenant.

Aaron Rakers
Okay, fair enough. That is it. Thanks.
Robert Eulau
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you. If you could talk about the decision around the dividend, and we've highlighted this is something you should consider. But I just curious how much of it is the current environment and the uncertainties around COVID-19 versus just coming in as a new CEO and wanting to get to these leverage targets before you start paying cash out?
David Goeckeler
You know, like anything, I think it's a combination of a lot of things. But certainly, the current situation, bring some focus to the desire to deleverage a little faster. But the real issue - and of course, the real issue is I come into the business, and the company is really well positioned. When I think - I talked about it in my remarks, when I think about the technology trends that are going on right now, I mean, it's happening in the cloud. Obviously, everybody knows that public cloud is a huge transition. We continue to see incredible growth, and we will. We can talk about that for a long time. We're very well positioned in that market. We perform in the fourth quarter. We'll see the hard drive market of the - the portfolio has been repositioned for that capacity - hard drive capacity enterprise market, and we'll see - actually see that market return to growth after several years of kind of decline and maybe going sideways a little bit.
 So we're very well indexed to what I think is one of the biggest technology trends we've seen in a very, very long time. And as that continues, that's going to be good for our portfolio. And then we have the flash portfolio, which if you look at the edge, we have just new markets coming online all the time, where we've talked about gaming, and we see VR headsets, all kinds of things are going to drive demand in that side of the market as well. So we're playing - the portfolio is very well positioned, and we have lots of opportunities to invest in the growth of the business. And when I think - when you put that all together, it was the right time to move on to a different model.
Joe Moore
Great. And then as a follow-up. If you could assess the current environment, we see a fair amount of tightness, particularly on enterprise-grade NAND. How much of that do you think is just tight supply/demand of raw NAND versus tighter supply of PCB controllers, things like that? It seems like it's a combination of both. Do you still think that the underlying NAND market is pretty healthy?
Robert Eulau
Yes. We're still very bullish on the enterprise SSD market. And as you know, Joe, we've got goals to get up to 20% market share there. In the short term, you're right, it's a matter of balancing and making sure we've got the right controllers to go with the NAND for that market. And so that's probably the controller side is more of a challenge than the NAND side, but we're very, very optimistic on that business.
Joe Moore
Great. Thank you.
David Goeckeler
Thanks, Joe.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from Karl Ackerman with Cowen. Please go ahead.
Karl Ackerman
Hi, good afternoon and welcome to the team Dave. Two questions if I may.
David Goeckeler
Thanks, Karl.
Karl Ackerman
Two questions, if I may. I was hoping you could provide a little bit more clarity on when we should expect the volumes of your 16- and 18-terabyte drives to cross over your 14-terabyte drives? I can appreciate your conservatism given limited use of the second half, but should we actually see the 18-terabyte time line accelerate given robust data center demand?
David Goeckeler
Karl, I think one of the things you're going to see from me is I'm going to really focus on forecasting one quarter at a time. So it's not going to happen next quarter, but you knew that. I think we're looking several quarters out, I guess, is what I'll say at this point. I think - will it accelerate given the increased cloud demand we're seeing? We're seeing a lot of demand for that product already. I don't think it's going to accelerate one way or another based on if that demand - I mean, we're basically going to - we have the demand we need to ramp the product. So we're looking forward to it being a great launch now, and the team is very focused on continuing to make supply available, but we're excited about the product.

Karl Ackerman
Thanks. And as a follow-up, if I may. Are you capacity constrained on nearline today? And in NAND, while it's probably difficult to ascertain what your customers' inventory levels are, has NAND inventory on your own balance sheet declined on a days basis in March? And any thoughts on how that could trend in the June quarter?
David Goeckeler
Why don't you take the inventory question?
Robert Eulau
Yes. I can start with the inventory question. So our inventories were up just slightly this quarter. I actually think in the next quarter, you'll see inventories coming down quite a bit because of some of the supply chain challenges. But I'd say everything seems to be an equilibrium in general.
David Goeckeler
Yes. I would say the same thing about the supply. Are we supply constrained? I think the balance is what we expected at this point, right? We continue to see strong demand there.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from Sidney Ho with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Sidney Ho
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So I have two questions. First one is on the gross margin guide being 29% to 31% on a GAAP basis, I know there is a number of moving parts there. I think, you talked about NAND prices going up. Can you just help us build the bridge between where you were in fiscal Q3 where there's a bunch of expenses included? And how that gets to fiscal Q4?
Robert Eulau
Yes. So Sidney, this is Bob. I'll take that. So the - actually, we probably have more absorption variance and cost headwinds in the fourth fiscal quarter than we had in the third. And we are trying to move prices up where we can in the market as a result of those incremental costs. So it's absorption, it's logistics costs, it's other costs and making sure the environments are safe around the world. So it's actually a bigger challenge in the fourth quarter.
Sidney Ho
Okay. Maybe my follow-up question is, you lowered your gross cash CapEx to $1.7 billion from - I think last quarter, you said $2 billion to $2.5 billion. Just trying to figure out what has changed there in terms of the CapEx plans? I understand for next year, you guys are not ready to give a guidance. But just maybe qualitatively or directionally, how are you thinking about tech migration, wafer capacity additions, those kind of things would be great? Thank you.
Robert Eulau
Yeah. So without talking too much about the specific number, as you know, this was always anticipated to be a low growth CapEx year for us. Because if you go back a year ago, we were reducing the amount of capacity we had. We actually took some off-line about a year ago, as you'll recall. And then along with our partner, we had pushed out some of the CapEx expectations. So we'd always expected this to be a light year. And I still expect CapEx will be up next year. I'm not ready at this point to say how much that will be.
Sidney Ho
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
Mehdi Hosseini
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. I want to go back to your hard disk drive. You spoke last few years. It seems like you and your competitor are skipping a node. Your competitor may have gained some market share in 16 terabyte, and now you are aggressively qualifying 18. And this has been a pattern for the past two years. How should we think about this looking forward, especially as areal density is going to hit the ceiling? Is there any update on your strategy?
And in that context, my follow-up question for David is, this is the first time that you have the mic, if you could please tell us how do you see the company moving forward? And what are the key strategies that you're employing? I understand that you've been on board for probably maybe one or two months, but both NAND and hard disk drives are very dynamic. Things changes on a monthly, quarterly basis. To the extent that you can share with us your long-term vision and your strategy would be very helpful? Thank you.

David Goeckeler
Okay. So on the - thanks, Mehdi. On the first question, you're right, we are in a product transiti